=== Page 1 ===
npj | quantum information Article
Published in partnership with The University of New South Wales
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7
Lindblad-like quantum tomography for
non-Markovian quantum dynamical maps
Check for updates
S. Varona1,2 , M. Müller 1,3 &A .B e r m u d e z2
We introduce Lindblad-like quantum tomography (L ℓQT) as a quantum characterization technique of
time-correlated noise in quantum information processors. This approach enables the estimation of
time-local master equations, including their possible negative decay rates, by maximizing a likelihood
function subject to dynamical constraints. We discuss L ℓQT for the dephasing dynamics of single
qubits in detail, which allows for a neat understanding of the importance of including multiple
snapshots of the quantum evolution in the likelihood function, and how these need to be distributed in
time depending on the noise characteristics. By a detailed comparative study employing both
frequentist and Bayesian approaches, we assess the accuracy and precision of L ℓQT of a dephasing
quantum dynamical map that goes beyond the Lindblad limit, focusing on two different microscopic
noise models that can be realised in either trapped-ion or superconducting-circuit architectures. We
explore the optimization of the distribution of measurement times to minimize the estimation errors,
assessing the superiority of each learning scheme conditioned on the degree of non-Markovinity of the
noise, and setting the stage for future experimental designs of non-Markovian quantum tomography.
The ﬁeld of quantum information processing has witnessed a remarkable
progress in the last years1–5, as evidenced by the key advances reported in6–18.
This progress lays the groundwork for the eventual demonstration of
practical quantum advantage in real-world applications
19. Central to these
advancements and future breakthroughsis the exceptional level of isolation
and control achieved over quantum information processors (QIPs),
enabling the application and integration of various strategies toﬁght against
the accumulation of errors during quantum computations. These strategies
can be implemented either during the processing of quantum information
or, alternatively, post-measurement, falling into three distinct categories:
quantum error suppression (QES)
20–23, quantum error mitigation
(QEM)24–27, and quantum error correction (QEC)28–30.
The development and optimization of these techniques for speci ﬁc
architectures greatly beneﬁts from a comprehensive understanding of the
underlying sources of noise, including a thorough quantum characteriza-
tion, veri ﬁcation and validation (QCVV) of the noise models
31–33.B y
addressing the noise characteristics, researchers can tailor their strategies to
suit the speciﬁc requirements of different platforms, thereby enhancing the
reliability and performance of QIPs. For instance, the presence of spatial and
temporal noise correlations is a critical consideration in some techniques of
QES, such as decoherence-free subspaces 34–38 and dynamical
decoupling39–44, respectively. Likewise, in the context of QEC, the presence of
spatial45–47 and temporal48–50 noise correlations must be carefully accounted
for when considering fault-tolerant quantum computation beyond the
idealized regime of independent and identically distributed errors. In this
work, we will focus on the characterization of qubit dynamics under tem-
porally correlated noise. This can actually lead to a non-Markovian quan-
tum evolution, which will require r econsidering some of the established
characterization tools for the dynamics of Markovian open quantum sys-
tems. Before delving into more speciﬁc details about the characterization of
non-Markovian quantum evolutions, we note that the degree of non-
Markovianity
51–53 can play a role in the effectiveness of QES54,55 and QEM56,57
techniques.
Within the set of QCVV techniques31–33, quantum process tomography
(QPT) aims at characterizing the mo st generic type of process that can
account for the evolution of a quantum system, solely constrained by the
laws of quantum mechanics
58–62.F o ras p e c iﬁc evolution time, after pre-
paring and measuring the system in an informationally complete setting,
one can make an estimate of the compl etely-positive trace-preserving
(CPTP) quantum channel
63,64 that determines a snapshot of the quantum
evolution. Therefore, QPT has been applied for the characterization of
quantum gates in various experimental QIPs
65–73, typically restricted to small
n u m b e ro fq u b i t s .I na d d i t i o nt ot h ei n h e r e n tc o m p l e x i t yo fQ P Ta st h e
number of qubits increases, this characterization must be repeated for each
instant of time of interest, in order to obtain a coarse-grained reconstruction
of the full, i.e. a one-parameter family of CPTP channels
74–76 that governs the
1Institute for Quantum Information, RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, Germany. 2Instituto de Física Teórica, UAM-CSIC, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid,
Cantoblanco, Madrid, Spain. 3Peter Grünberg Institute, Theoretical Nanoelectronics, Forschungszentrum Jülich, Jülich, Germany.
e-mail: svarona@physik.rwth-aachen.de
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 1
1234567890():,;
1234567890():,;

=== Page 2 ===
time evolution of the quantum system. Although repeating QPT can allow
to characterise non-Markovian evolutions, the associated overhead can limit
the precision in architectures where the number of measurements shots
cannot be sufﬁciently large
77.
A strategy to overcome this limitation is to focus on the estimation of
the generators of the noisy dynamics, rather than on the various coarse-
grained snapshots. For time-homogeneous quantum dynamical maps,
which form a semigroup, the time evolution can be described by the
exponential of a Lindblad super-operator
74,78,79. Although one may expect
that the generators of this type of Markovian noise can be obtained by simple
algebraic manipulations of a single QPT snapshot at any arbitrary time, this
approach can lead to inconsistencies
80–83 due to the branches of the complex
logarithm. Therefore, alternative QCVV techniques are required. One
possibility is use the Lindbladian generators for a parametrization of the
quantum evolution, which can then b e inferred using different learning
strategies
65,81,82,84–90. Lindblad learning aims to estimate the Hamiltonian
under which the system evolves and, additionally, the jump operators and
dissipation rates that govern the non-unitary part of the dynamics of the
noisy QIP. However, it is important tonote that Lindblad learning is based
on the Lindblad master equation, valid only for Markovian system-
environment interactions, i.e., memoryless interactions in which informa-
tion ﬂows from the system to the environment but neverﬂows back.
However, noise in real QIPs does not always fall in this category, and
temporal correlations and even non-Markovianity can play an important
role, as alluded above in connection to QES, QEM and QEC. Hence, it would
be desirable to extend the Lindblad learning to encompass non-Markovian
noise scenarios, such that the quantum dynamical maps are no longer a
semigroup, nor can they be divided into the composition of sequential CP
channels at any intermediate time
75,76. Several characterization techniques
for related problems have been developed in recent years. Quantum noise
spectroscopy protocols91,92 have evolved into characterization tools of non-
M a r k o v i a ns y s t e m s ,a si nr e f .93, where the authors develop aﬁlter-function
formalism based on frames. A general non-Markovian quantum process
framework was proposed by ref.94 allowing to characterize non-Markovian
quantum processes using process tensor tomography (PTT). This later led
to proposals of quantum non-Ma rkovian process tomography
95.
Reference96 introduced into this PTT frameworks the possibility of memory
effects within the system control itself and from undesirable interactions
between the control and the environment. This contrasts ref. 94 where
perfect gates were assumed. Reference97 characterizes certain type of non-
Markovian errors in quantum gates and98 proposes also characterization of
quantum gates but with a compressed approach that reduces the resources
needed in comparison to, for instance, ref.96.
In general, any quantum evolution that results from the coupling of a
quantum system to a larger environment, or to a set of noisy controls
modeled by stochastic processes, can be expressed in terms of a time-local
master equation by using a time-convolutionless formulation
99 of the
Nakajima-Zwanzig integro-differential equation74,100,101.T h e s et i m e - l o c a l
master equations generalize the aforementioned Lindblad master
equation78,79, and can be expressed in a canonical form that connects directly
with the degree of non-Markovianity102. In essence, the characterization of
these time-local master equations would require a time-dependent para-
metrization of the Hamiltonian, jump operators and dissipation rates, which
can then be incorporated into a maximum-likelihood estimation that par-
allels the Markovian Lindblad limit
87–90. In this work, we call this QCVV
techniqueLindblad-like quantum tomography(LℓQT), and develop it in the
simplest possible scenario: the dephasing dynamics of a single qubit. We
present a detailed comparative studyof this QCVV technique, considering
both a frequentist and a Bayesian approach for the statistical inference. We
consider minimal dephasing models, both semi-classical and fully quan-
tum-mechanical, in which the temporal correlations and degree of non-
Markovianity can be independently controlled. By making a careful con-
nection to the the theory of asymptotic inference and Bayesian estimation,
we quantify both the accuracy and precision of LℓQT. We discuss how the
amount of temporal correlations and the degree of non-Markovianity can
play a key role in deciding which of the two approaches is preferable when
learning the non-Lindblad qubit dephasing.
This article is organized as follows. In subsection“Learning time-local
master equations by maxim um-likelihood estimation” we review the
techniques of Lindblad quantum tomography and present L ℓQT, a gen-
eralization of Lindblad learning that allows us to characterize non-
Markovian noise. In subsections“Frequentist approach to non-Markovian
inference” and “Bayesian approach to non-Markovian inference ” two
approaches to L ℓQT are presented. Subsection “Lindblad-like quantum
tomography for non-Markovian dephasing ” presents L ℓQT applied to
dephasing noise. The frequentist and Bayesian approaches are later com-
pared in a performance analysis in subsections “Markovian semi-classical
dephasing” and “Non-Markovian quantum dephasing”, where we also
study how measurement times should be selected to reduce the number of
necessary measurements and the error in the estimation of noise
parameters.
Results
Learning time-local master equations by maximum-likelihood
estimation
The Lindblad master equation generalizes the Schrödinger equation to open
and noisy quantum systems 74,78,79, and describes the non-unitary time
e v o l u t i o no ft h ed e n s i t ym a t r i xo ft h es y s t e m ,d eﬁned as a positive-deﬁnite
unit-trace linear operator ρ 2 DðHSÞ/C26LðHSÞ in a Hilbert space of
dimensiond ¼ dim HS
64.T h i sm a s t e re q u a t i o nc a nb ew r i t t e ni nt e r m so f
an inﬁnitesimal generator dρ=dt ¼ LH;GðρÞ,n a m e l y
LH;GðρÞ¼/C0 i H; ρ
/C2/C3
þ
Xd2 /C01
α;β¼1
Gαβ Eα ρEy
β /C01
2 Ey
βEα ; ρ
no/C18/C19
; ð1Þ
where the Hamiltonian H 2 HermðHSÞ is a Hermitian operator, and we
have introduced the so-called dissi pation Lindblad matrix, a positive
semideﬁnite matrix G 2 PosðCd2 /C01Þ.H e r e , B ¼f E0 ¼ 1d ; Eα : α 2
f1; /C1/C1/C1; d2 /C01gg forms an operator basisLðHSÞ¼ spanfBg and, together
with the Lindblad matrix, determines the dissipative non-unitary dynamics
of the system. Diagonalizing the Lindblad matrix, we obtain
LH;GðρÞ¼/C0 i H; ρ
/C2/C3
þ
Xd2 /C01
n¼1
γn LnρLy
n /C01
2 Ly
nLn; ρ
/C8/C9/C18/C19
; ð2Þ
where fLn : n 2f 1; /C1/C1/C1; d2 /C01gg 2 LðHSÞ are the jump operators
responsible of generating the differentnoise processes with dissipative decay
rates γn 2 Rþ. The goal of Lindblad learning is to estimate LH;G or,
equivalently the system Hamiltonian and the dissipation rates and jump
operators {H, γ
n, Ln}, using aﬁnite number of measurements65,81,82,84–89,103.I n
particular, our work starts from a maximum-likelihood approach 104 to
Lindbladian quantum tomography (LQT)87,89,90.
In the general case, LQT involves preparing an informationally com-
plete set of initial states s 2 S0, allowing the system to evolve over a set of
timesi 2 It , and performing measurements in different basisb 2 Mb,w i t h
corresponding outcomesmb 2 Mmb
(or more generally using a POVM).
These independent con ﬁgurations, consisting of initial states, evolution
times, and measurement outcomes, provide the necessary data to estimate
the Hamiltonian, dissipation rates, and jump operators, ensuring a complete
reconstruction of the Lindbladian dynamics. LQT makes use of a total of
N
shot measurement shots, also known as trials in the context of statistics,
which will be distributed among the different initial states, instants of time
and measurement basis N
shot = ∑s,i,bNs,i,b. Therefore, the total number of
measurement shots is a function of number of initial states, measurement
basis, measurement outcomes and measurement times, expressed as
N
shotðjS0j; jMbj; jMmb
j; jIt jÞ,w h e r ejAj denotes the cardinality of the set
A, i.e., the number of elements in the set. In the experiment, one would
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 2

=== Page 3 ===
count the number of timesNs;i;b;mb
that themb outcome is obtained for each
of the conﬁgurations, such thatNs;i;b ¼P
mb
Ns;i;b;mb
.T h i sp r o v i d e sad a t a
set D ¼f Ns;i;b;mb
g that can be understood as a random sample of the
corresponding random variable~Ns;i;b;mb
obtained fromNshot experimental
measurements. We use tildes to refer to stochastic variables. In this case, the
probability of obtaining the outcomemb when measuring in basisb is given
by ps;i;bðmbÞ¼ Tr MμEti ;t0
ðρ0;sÞ
no
,w h e r eMμ represents the correspond-
ing projector of the combination (b, mb). Et;t0
2 CðHSÞ is a one-parameter
family of completely-positive trace-preserving (CPTP) channels64 describ-
ing the actual time evolution of the noisy quantum system. Each mea-
surement conﬁguration gives rise to an independent binomial distribution
with Ns,i,b trials.
The data set D can be used to estimate the Hamiltonian H and
Lindblad matrixG by maximizing the likelihood function, which is deﬁned
as the probability distribution of th e combination of all the independent
binomials ps,i,b(mb). These binomials can be approximated by the Lind-
bladian of Eq. (1), namelyps;i;bðmbÞ7!pL
s;i;bðmbÞ¼ TrfMμeðti /C0t0 ÞLH;G ðρ0;sÞg.
T h el a r g e rt h i sl i k e l i h o o df u n c t i o ni sf o rag i v e np a i rH, G, the better the
Lindbladian description approximates the observed data 104.T a k i n gt h e
negative logarithm of the likelihoodfunction we obtain a cost function
CLðH; GÞ¼/C0
X
s;i;b:mb
Ns;i;b;mb
log pL
s;i;bðmbÞ; ð3Þ
with the minimum located in the same place as the maximum of the original
likelihood. The optimization problem is thus converted into a non-linear
minimization of this Lindbladian cost function. By minimizing this non-
convex estimator or, instead, a convex approximation based on linearization
and/or compressed sensing
90, LQT provides an estimate of the generators
^H; ^G that yield the best match with the observed data, where we will use hats
to refer to estimated quantities. We note that this minimization is subject to
constraints on Hamiltonian hermicity and Lindblad matrix semide ﬁnite
positiveness.
In this work, we describe ourﬁrst steps in the development of a learning
procedure for non-Markovian quantum dynamical maps that supersedes
the above LQT. In particular, we consider the statistical inference of the
generators of quantum dynamical maps that need not fulﬁll CP-divisibility,
the property of a quantum dynamicalmap where the evolution between any
two intermediate times can be described by a completely positive map
51,105.
These maps ρðtÞ¼ ETL
t;t0
ðρ0Þ no longer have the Lindbladian generator of
Eq. (1), but are instead governed by atime-local master equationthat, when
expressed in a canonical form102,r e a d s_ρ ¼/C0i½HðtÞ; ρ/C138þDTLðρÞ with
DTLðρÞ¼
X
n
γnðtÞ LnðtÞρLy
nðtÞ/C0 1
2 fLy
nðtÞLnðtÞ; ρg
/C18/C19
: ð4Þ
Here, the Hamiltonian H(t), as well as the dissipative rates and jump
operatorsγn(t), Ln(t), can be time dependent. It is important to note that the
‘rates’ a r en ol o n g e rr e q u i r e dt ob ep o s i t i v es e m i d eﬁnite. The possibility of
encountering negative rates is directly linked with the non-Markovianity of
the quantum evolution
51,52,75. This time-local master equation can always be
w r i t t e ni nt h ef o r mo fE q .(1) by lettingH ↦ H(t)a n dG ↦ G(t), such that the
corresponding quantum dynamical map will depend on the history of the
time-dependent generators ETL
t;t0
¼ ETL
t;t0
ðfHðt0Þ; Gðt0ÞgÞ for all t0 2½ t; t0/C138.
Here, thet0 argument reﬂects the fact that now the dynamical map between
initial time t0 and time t depends on all intermediate times. We thus
formulate a Lindblad-like quantum tomography(LℓQT) by upgrading the
LQT cost function in Eq. (3) to a time-local one that can encompass non-
Markovian effects
CTL fHðt0Þ; Gðt0ÞgðÞ ¼ /C0
X
s;i;b;mb
Ns;i;b;mb
log pTL
s;i;bðmbÞ; ð5Þ
where the theoretical probabilities are calculated following
pTL
s;i;bðmbÞ¼ Tr Mb;mb
ETL
ti ;t0
ðρ0;sÞ
no
: ð6Þ
The above cost function must be mi nimized subject to dynamical
constraints
^HðtÞ; ^GðtÞ
/C0/C1
¼ argmin C TL fHðt0Þ; Gðt0ÞgðÞ
/C8/C9
; ð7Þ
subject to Hðt0Þ2 HermðHSÞ; Gðt0Þ2 HermðCd2 /C01Þ. Therefore, we see
that in addition to the time dependences, the dissipation matrix is no longer
required to be semi-positive de ﬁnite, but only Hermitian, and can thus
support negative decay rates and incorporate non-Markovian effects.
The crucial property that differentiates LQT from other learning
approaches such as quantum process tomography58–62 is that the estimator
includes jIt j different instants of timefti; i 2 It g/C26T, instead of focusing
on a single snapshot of the quantum dynamical map. Although we have
s h o w ni nr e f .90 that, in certain regimes, an accurate LQT can be obtained by
focusing on a single snapshot for Lindbladian evolution, this will not be the
case for time-correlated and non-Markovian quantum evolutions. In this
case, it will be crucial to include the information of various snapshots into
the cost function. In fact, we address in this work how many snapshots
would be required, and which particular instants of time would be optimal
in order to learn about the memory effects of a time-correlated or a non-
Markovian noisy quantum evolution. We note that a black-box approach to
LℓQT is a very complicated problem, as the parameters of the Hamiltonian
and dissipation matrix can have any arbitrary time dependence. In order to
progress further, we instead look into physically-motivated models for
LℓQT, allowing us to restrict the search space, and start by focusing on a
simple and, yet, very relevant setting: a single qubit subject to time-
correlated dephasing noise, which canr e s u l ti nn o n - M a r k o v i a nq u a n t u m
dynamics. Our techniques and conclusions may be useful when generalising
to more complicated non-Markovian dynamics, aiming at the character-
ization of non-Markovian noise in gate sets of QIPs to optimise a tomo-
graphic analysis
77.
As stated in Eq. (7) we can follow a frequentist approach similarly to the
one in Markovian Lindblad quantum tomography87,89,90, but now taking into
account the time-dependence of the decay rates, which will require an a
priori selection of the evolution times at which the system is probed. In light
of the L ℓQT estimation problem of Eq. ( 7), we do not need to consider
arbitrary time-dependent functions for the Hamiltonian and dissipation
matrix, but can actually ﬁnd an effective parametrization that reduces
drastically the search space. This means that the minimization in Eq. (7)c a n
be over the parameters θ of the Hamiltonian and d issipation matrix.
Although several intermediate times can be taken, a single time instant
actually sufﬁces for an accurate learning in LQT
90, which makes it simpler
and computationally lighter. As the noise becomes time correlated, recon-
structing the more complex time-dependent dynamics via LℓQT, demands
multiple time steps to achieve high accuracies. LQT has in principle the same
number of parameters d2(d2 − 1) to be learnt as quantum process tomo-
graphy, and to do so requires at least d2(d2 − 1) measurement conﬁgura-
tions. For the general case, where arbitrary time-dependent rates need to be
estimated, a naive blind-search approach would require repeated LQT at
many time points, leading to high sample complexity. In contrast, LℓQT’s
use of a microscopic parameterization reduces the need for extensive
measurements by imposing physical constraints, which partially addresses
the sample complexity challenge and makes it a more scalable method. Thus
in parameterized LℓQT we will need at least as many measurement con-
ﬁg u r a t i o n sa st h en u m b e ro fparameters to estimate.
Alternatively to this frequentist approach, we can also consider a
Bayesian approach that exploits a phy sically-motivated prior knowledge
about these noise parameters, which can be represented by a certain
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 3

=== Page 4 ===
probability distribution. After performing measurements on the system at
certain instants of time and certain measurement basis, we update this
probability distributionwith the new acquired information, a process that is
repeated until reaching a target accuracy for the parameter estimation. The
Bayesian approach has the advantage of choosing, at each step, the most
convenient subsequent time and measurement basis at which to measure by
maximizing the information one wouldgain. In principle, this can lead to a
reduction in the number of measurements required to reach a certain
accuracy with respect to those required by the frequentist approach. In
practice, however, the non-Markovianity of the quantum evolution can
modify this argument, as our probabilistic account of the model parameters
can be affected by the actual time co rrelations of the underlying random
process.
Frequentist approach to non-Markovian inference
In this section, we focus on the frequentist approach, which builds on the
relative frequencies of observed outcomes. The LℓQT cost function of Eq. (5)
can be rewritten as follows
C
TLðθÞ¼/C0
X
s;i;b
Ns;i;b
X
mb
~f s;i;bðmb jθ?Þ log pTL
s;i;bðmbjθÞ; ð8Þ
where ~f s;i;bðmb jθ?Þ¼ Ns;i;b;mb
=Ns;i;b is the ratio of the number of mb
measurement outcomes observedNs;i;b;mb
to the total ofNs,i,b shots collected
at the instant of timei and initial states when measuring the system with the
POVM element b. Our notation remarks that these relative frequencies
carry information about the real noise parametersθ⋆ we aim at estimating.
In addition, the estimator depends onps,i,b(mb∣θ)s h o w ni nE q .(6), where we
make explicit the dependence on the parametrized noise.
The minimization in Eq. (7) can explicitely written as a minimization
over the noise parameters. As a consequence, the frequentist approach can
be recast as a statistical problem of parameter point estimation104,n a m e l y
^θF ¼ argminθfCTLðθÞ : θ 2 Θ ¼ Rng: ð9Þ
Instead of the general L ℓQT learning over d2(d2 − 1) parameters, which
increase exponentially d ¼ 2nq with the number of qubits nq and can
arbitrarily change in time, our procedure revolves around the estimation of
n noise parameters, which are independent of the system size and the
evolution times. On the other hand, the imprecision of our estimates will
indeed depend on our choice of the evolution times, forcing us to go beyond
the LQT single-time estimator
90, and actually measure at optimal times,
initial states and measurement e lements for which the estimation
imprecision can be minimized. Let us note that the conditions to minimise
this cost function are the same as those that minimize the Kullback-Leibler
divergence
106,107, which is the following relative entropy
DKLð p1jj p2Þ¼/C0
X
k
p1;k log
p2;k
p1;k
 !
; ð10Þ
between the experimental p1;k 2f ~f s;i;bðmb jθ?Þg and parameterized theo-
retical p2;k 2f pTL
s;i;bðmb jθÞg probability distributions, provided one con-
siders variations with respectto the estimation parametersθ.
The above estimator d epends on the data set D, and is thus also a
stochastic variable, which will be characterized by its mean E½^θF/C138and its
moments, such as the covariance matrix
½Covð^θFÞ/C138n1 ;n2
¼ E ^θn1
/C0E½^θn1
/C138
/C16/C17
^θn2
/C0E½^θn2
/C138
/C16/C17hi
: ð11Þ
We note that the expectation values aretaken with respect to the probability
distributions for the measurements ofps,i,b(mb) which, implicitly, also have
the stochastic average over the random dephasing noise in the semi-classical
model, or a partial trace over the environment in the quantum-mechanical
one. The nice property of the maximum- likelihood estimator is that it is
asymptotically unbiased, such that Bθ?
ðθFÞ¼ E½^θF/C138/C0θ? ! 0 for a
sufﬁciently largeNshot. Moreover, its asymptotic covariance matrix saturates
the Cramér-Rao bound108 relating the estimation precision to the Fisher
information matrix, which quantiﬁes the amount of information inD about
the unknown parameters. If we momentarily assume that the measurements
occur at a single instant of time t = ti, a single initial state and a single
measurement basis with outcomes that are independent and identically
distributed, the covariance matrix becomes Covð^θ
FÞ/C25ðNs;i;bIF;s;i;bðθ?ÞÞ/C01,
where
½IF;s;i;bðθ?Þ/C138n1 ;n2
¼ E
∂log pTL
s;i;bðmbjθÞ
/C16/C17
∂θn1
∂log pTL
s;i;bðmbjθÞ
/C16/C17
∂θn2
/C12/C12/C12
/C12
/C12
/C12
θ?
2
64
3
75: ð12Þ
In this work, we deal with the more general case in which we measure at
several times, therefore the random variables are not identically distributed,
and the total number of shots need not be the same for different mea-
surement conﬁgurations, i.e., instants of time, initial states and measure-
ment basis. In this case, we must tak e a linear combination of the Fisher
information matrices of each measurement conﬁguration weighted by the
proportion of measurements taken at each one of these con ﬁgurations
109.
We thus obtain the asymptotic covariance matrix
Covð^θFÞ/C25Σ^θ /C17Nshot
X
s;i;b
Ns;i;b
Nshot
IF;s;i;bðθ?Þ
"# /C01
; ð13Þ
such that, the more the Ramsey estimator varies under changes of the noise
parameters, the bigger the ampliﬁcation of the noise parameter is and, thus,
t h es m a l l e rt h ei m p r e c i s i o no n ec a na c h i e v e .A sw ec a ns e e ,t h ei m p r e c i s i o n
of the estimate will scale with 1= ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃN
shot
p , such that the Ramsey estimator is
asymptotically consistent in the Nshot → ∞ asymptotic limit104.T h e
asymptotic statistics of the maximum -likelihood estimator is further
explained in the Methods section.
We also note that, in this limit, the observed relative frequencies will be
normally distributed, such that one can consider minimizing a weighted
least-squares cost function. For instance, assuming a binary case wheremb ∈
{0, 1}, corresponding to a qubit measurement, we have
CTLðθÞ/C25
X
s;i;b
~f s;i;bð0jθ?Þ/C0 pTL
s;i;bð0jθÞ
/C16/C17 2
~σ2
f s;i;b
; ð14Þ
where ~f s;i;bð0 jθ?Þ¼ Ns;i;b;0=Ns;i;b is the ratio of the number of outcomes
observedNs,i,b,0 to the total of shotsNs,i,b collected at initial states, the instant
of time ti and measurement elementb. Here, ~σ2
f s;i;b
is the variance of these
measured samples. These ~f s;i;bð0 jθ?Þ follow a binomial proportion dis-
tribution with mean given bypTL
s;i;bð0jθ?Þ and, in the limit of a largeNs,i,b,t h e y
can be approximated by a normal distribution with mean pTL
s;i;bð0jθ?Þ and
varianceσ2
f s;i;b
according to the central limit theorem. The expected variance
of the measurement conﬁguration (s, i, b)i s
σ2
f s;i;b
¼
pTL
s;i;bð0 jθÞ 1 /C0pTL
s;i;bð0 jθÞ
/C16/C17
Ns;i;b
; ð15Þ
since we are sampling from a binomial distribution. This approximation
allows us to use a simpler weighted lea st-squares algorithm, such as the
trust-region reﬂective algorithm implemented in SciPy, where we can
optionally set some bounds for the parameters to be estimated. The
computational complexity of the trust-region re ﬂective algorithm is
dominated in each iteration by solving the trust-region subproblem, which
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 4

=== Page 5 ===
is typically O(n3), with n t h en u m b e ro fp a r a m e t e r s .T h en u m b e ro f
iterations depends on the complexity ofthe cost function, the accuracy of the
initial guess, and the desired level of convergence. However, once the
algorithm gets close to the solution, the remaining convergence is rapid,
showing a quadratic rate, meaning the distance to the solution decreases at a
rate proportional to the square of the distance at the previous step.
Once the properties of the Ramsey frequentist estimate^θ
F have been
discussed, we can search for the optimal measurement times, initial states
and measurement elements that would lead to a Ramsey estimator with the
lowest possible imprecision for a given ﬁnite N
shot. Depending on which
parameter we are interested in, we may be interested in minimizing a par-
ticular component of the covariance matrix ½Σ
^θ/C138n1 ;n1
in Eq. (13) or, alter-
natively, minimize its determinant as a whole. In the asymptotic limit in
which ^θ
F follows a multivariate normal distribution, detΣ^θ is proportional
to the volume enclosed by the covarian ce elliptical region, so it is a good
measure of the dispersion of the distribution, and a good way to quantify the
accuracy of the estimation. Sometimes, we will also use det Σ1=2n
θ instead,
which can be more easily compared to the individual standard deviations
½Σ^θ/C1381=2
n1 ;n1
, as both quantities scale with 1= ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃNshot
p . Minimizing detΣ^θ has also
the advantage that the optimal measurement conﬁgurations obtained are
independent of the parameters we wantto determine, assuming the different
parametrizations have the same number of parameters and that a coordi-
nate transformation exists between p arametrizations. In this case, the
determinants of the covariance matrices are related by det Σ
θ
¼ det Σθ0 det J2,w i t h J the Jacobian of the coordinate transformation
between both parametrizations, which does not depend on the measure-
ment con ﬁgurations and therefore will have no in ﬂuence in the mini-
mization. Before presenting these results, we discuss an approach based on
Bayesian inference
104.
Bayesian approach to non-Markovian inference
Rather than considering the relative frequencies as approximations of the
underlying probability distribution with a certainﬁxed value ofθ⋆,t h ei d e a
of Bayesian inference is to quantify statistically our knowledge about the
noise parameters, and how this knowledge gets updated as we collect more
information via measurements. Hence, the noise parameters become con-
tinuous stochastic v ariables themselves θ
?7!~θ that take values θ ∈ Θ
according to a prior probability density function (PDF) π0(θ). This prob-
ability distribution quantiﬁes our uncertainty about the noise parameters
before making any measurementD0 ¼; .A te a c hℓ >0B a y e s i a ns t e p ,w e
measure the system enlarging the data set sequentially
D
‘/C017!D‘ ¼ D‘/C01 ∪ δD‘,w h e r e δD‘ /C26D ¼f Ni;s;b;mb
g contains a
number of measurement outcomes∣δNℓ∣that is a fraction of the totalNshot.
These outcomes will be labeled asδD‘ ¼f Ni‘ ;s‘;b‘ ;mb‘
g. The measurements
in this data set are again binary Bernoulli trials, and can be described by a
joint distribution of independent binomialsp
~N ðδD‘Þ,d eﬁned in analogy to
the likelihood function, but only extended to the conﬁgurations measured in
the particular Bayesian step. The prior (ℓ − 1)-th probability distribution is
then updated by using Bayes’ rule based on the parametrized probability
distributionspTL
‘ ðδD‘jθÞ being understood as probabilities conditioned on
our statistical knowledge of the noise parameters
π‘ðθjD‘Þ¼ 1
pTL
‘/C01ðδD‘Þ pTL
‘ ðδD‘jθÞπ‘/C01ðθÞ: ð16Þ
Here,pTL
‘/C01ðδD‘Þ¼
R
Θ dnθ pTL
‘ ðδD‘jθÞπ‘/C01ðθÞ is a normalization constant
required to interpret π‘ðθjD‘Þ7!π‘ðθÞ as a probability distribution
describing our updated knowledge about the noise, which will be used as the
subsequent prior.
One of the main differences with respect to the frequentist approach is
that we have, at each step, a probabili ty distribution from which one can
obtain a Bayesian estimate
^θ
B ¼ Eθ½θ/C138¼
Z
Θ
dnθπ ‘ðθÞθ: ð17Þ
We note that this Bayesian estimator ^θB minimizes the Bayesian risk
associated to a squared error loss fun ction over all possible estimators ^τ,
^θB ¼ argminfRTLð^τÞg104 with
RTLð^τÞ¼
X
i‘ ;s‘ ;b‘ ;mb‘ 2δD‘
Z
Θ
dnθπ ‘ðθÞpTL
‘ δD‘jθ
/C0/C1
ð^τ /C0θÞ2: ð18Þ
In addition to the expectation value in Eq. (17), since we have the updated
probability distributions, we can quantify how our uncertainty about the
noise parameters changes via the associated covariance matrix
½Covð^θBÞ/C138n1 ;n2
or any other statistics, regardless of the size of the Bayesian
data setD‘. This differs from our previous arguments for covariance of the
maximum likelihood estimate^θF in Eq. (13), which require working in the
asymptotic regime Nshot → ∞. In experimental situations in which this
regime cannot be reached, we note that one could use Monte Carlo sampling
techniques to estimate precision of^θF
77,110,111, although these deal with the
estimator based on the full likelihood function.
Another crucial difference of the Bayesian approach is that, instead of
choosing a predeﬁned set of evolution times, initial states and measurement
basis, we canﬁnd the optimal time at which we should measure to maximize
the information gain at each Bayesian step. For each update, we thus solve
for
ði‘; s‘; b‘Þ¼ argmaxi;s;b E DKL π‘ðθjD‘Þ ∣∣π‘ðθÞ
/C0/C1/C2/C3/C8/C9
; ð19Þ
whereπ‘ðθjD‘Þ is the posterior probability in Eq. (16) corresponding to the
measurement results one would obtain by measuring at a timeti, initial state
s and measurement basisb, and enlarging the data set asD‘0 ¼ D‘ ∪ δD‘0 .
In the expression above, we are making use of the Kullback-Leibler
divergence of Eq. (10) between the posterior and the prior, searching for a
measurement conﬁguration that maximizes the relative entropy between
the prior and any of the possible posteriors, such that one gains the
maximum amount of information at each Bayesian step. Therefore, not only
the data set is enlarged sequentiallyD
‘ /C27D‘/C01, but also the speciﬁct i m e s
are chosen adaptively. In light of theﬁxed set of measurement times in the
frequentist approachfti : i 2 It g, we note that the total set of updated times
after NB Bayesian steps {tℓ, ℓ ∈ {0, ⋯ , NB}} can be very different, and that is
the reason why we use a different notation. Computing Eq. (19) can be quite
time-consuming, especially when dealing with a large number of
parameters. In practice, long computation times may lead to a reduction
in the frequency of experimental shots,which is undesirable. To avoid this,
we can take tens or hundreds of shots at each step before computing again
the optimal measurement conﬁguration. This will not change the results
signiﬁcantly, since a Bayesian update of a single shot does not change the
prior much and the optimal measurement time of next step remains very
similar to the previous one. We note that the Bayesian approach is ultimately
related to the maximum-likelihood estimation in the asymptotic limit
N
shot → ∞. When the variance of the prior is small, the maxima of the
Kullback-Leibler divergence in Eq. ( 10) between prior and posterior are
localized at the optimal measurement conﬁgurations obtained by minimiz-
ing the asymptotic covariance matrix of the maximum likelihood-
estimation in Eq. (13). Additionally, if we make a single Bayesian update
in which we take a very big number of shots at several measurement
conﬁgurations, the likelihood function relating the posterior and the prior
will be a joint distribution of independent binomials. Given the big number
of shots taken in this single step, the po sterior distribution will be mainly
shaped by the likelihood function, which contains most of the information
about the parameters. The position of the maximum of this PDF will be
located at the most likely value of the parameters, and therefore it is in
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 5

=== Page 6 ===
agreement with the maximum-likelihood estimator that takes measure-
ments at those measurement conﬁgurations. The Bayesian approach has the
advantage that, at each step, we m easure at the most convenient
conﬁguration that maximizes the expected information gain, and this can
lead to an overall reduction of the number of measurements needed. Also, as
noted above, theﬁnal estimate relies on a probability distribution, so that we
can immediately derive con ﬁdence intervals without requiring any
asymptotic limit.
For the Bayesian approach, where we use sequential Monte Carlo112 to
implement it numerically, the computational complexity is dominated by
the computation of the best measurement conﬁguration. At each step in the
Bayesian approach, we need to compute the expected posterior of the
measurement conﬁgurations, and then select the measurement conﬁgura-
tion maximizing the Kullback-Leibler divergence between posterior and
prior. The complexity of this calculation depends on the number of particles
in the particle ﬁlter, N
ﬁlter, the number of initial states, the number of
measurement bases, the number of measurement outcomes and the number
of measurement times considered. Therefore, we have a complexity
OðN
filter × jS0j × jMbj × jMmb
j × jIt jÞ. At each one of these
Nfilter × jS0j × jMbj × jMmb
j × jIt j operations we need to evaluate the
likelihood functionpTL
‘ ðδD‘jθÞ to compute the posterior weight. Therefore
if the posterior function is costly to compute we could think of pre-
computing it on a grid and then make linear interpolation to reduce the
computational cost, as the authors of ref.113 do. N
ﬁlter may need to increase
exponentially with the number of parameters, which makes the frequentist
approach more suitable in the case of large number of parameters. However,
this can be moderated by the speci ﬁc structure of the model and how
concentrated the posterior is.
Lindblad-like quantum tomography for non-Markovian
dephasing
Let us formulate the LℓQT for the time-local master equation of Eq. (4)f o r
the dephasing of a single qubit, including temporal correlations. As dis-
cussed in the Methods section, either in a semi-classical or quantum-
mechanical model of pure dephasing, the qubit dynamics can be described
by the time-local master equation in Eq. ( 4) with a simple Hamiltonian
HðtÞ¼
1
2 ω 0σz and a single jump operatorL(t)= σz, both of which are time
independent
dρ
dt ¼/C0 i
2 ω 0σz ; ρ
/C2/C3
þ γðtÞ σz ρσz /C0ρ
/C0/C1
: ð20Þ
On the contrary, the decay rate is time-dependent and contains memory
information about the noiseﬂuctuations
γðtÞ¼ 1
4
Z t
0
dt0 Cðt; t0Þþ Cðt0; tÞðÞ : ð21Þ
In a semi-classical model,Cðt; t0Þ¼ E½δ~ω ðtÞδ~ω ðt0Þ/C138is the auto-correlation
function of a stochastic processδ~ω ðtÞ representing frequencyﬂuctuations.
This master equation is the result of averaging over the stochastic process
ρðtÞ¼ E½~ρðtÞ/C138, and is valid for a random process in a second-order
cumulant expansion known as the fast- ﬂuctuation expansion or, alter-
natively, for a Gaussian random process with arbitrary correlation timesτc,
as discussed in the Methods section. Alternatively, for a fully quantum-
mechanical dephasing model, Cðt; t
0Þ¼ 1
2 TrBfBI ðtÞBI ðt0Þρss
B g is the auto-
correlation function on the stationary state of the environment/bath ρss
B ,
which induces ﬂuctuations in the qubit frequency via the bath operators
BI(t). In this case, the time-local master equation is the result of tracing over
the bath degrees of freedom ρðtÞ¼ TrBfρSBðtÞg, and is valid in a second-
order cumulant expansion also discussed in the Methods section. Assuming
wide-sense stationarity, i.e., the mean of the stochastic process is constant
and the auto-correlation function only depends ont
0 /C0t,w ec a ni n t r o d u c e
the power spectral density (PSD) of the noise
Cðt /C0t0Þ¼
Z 1
/C01
dω
2π Sðω Þ eiω ðt/C0t0 Þ: ð22Þ
Therefore, the time-dependent rate becomes
γðtÞ¼ 1
2
Z 1
/C01
dω Sðω Þ f γðω ; tÞ; ð23Þ
w h e r ew eh a v ei n t r o d u c e dt h ef o l l o w i n gm o d u l a t i o nf u n c t i o n
f γðω ; tÞ¼ t
2π sinc ðω tÞ: ð24Þ
It will be useful to deﬁne the symmetrized auto-correlation function and the
symmetrized PSD as /C22Cðt; t0Þ¼ 1
2 ðCðt; t0Þþ Cðt0; tÞÞ and /C22Sðω Þ¼ 1
2 ðSðω Þ
þSð/C0ω ÞÞ, since for dephasing noise only the symmetric part of the auto-
correlation function and the symmetric part of the PSD inﬂuence the time
evolution, as shown in the Methods section.
As discussed in the previous sections, we focus on an effective
parametrization of the Hamiltonian and dissipation matrix that reduces
the search space. Considering the expression in Eq. ( 23), the dephasing
rate will depend on a certain number n of real-valued noise parameters
θ
? 2 Θ ¼ Rn via the PSD Sθ?
ðω Þ, where we have made explicit its
parametrization. Since the Hamiltonian of the qubit is very simple, and
only depends on the transition frequency ω 0 that is known with a high
precision using spectroscopic methods, it need not be included in the
learning. Technically, this means that we can assume that the driving
used to initialize and measure the qubit is resonant with the transition
(see Fig. 1), and work in the rotating frame presented in the Methods
section. Likewise, we have only one possible jump operator L = σ
z, such
that the learning can focus directly on the estimation^θ of the actual noise
parameters θ⋆, which translate into the estimation of the dephasing rate
^γðtÞ via Eq. ( 23). Therefore, L ℓQT becomes a non-linear minimization
problem for the cost function in Eq. (5). Before giving more details on this
problem, we discuss relevant properties of the dephasing quantum
dynamical map.
For a white-noise noise model with a vanishing correlation timeτc =0 ,
one has a ﬂat PSD S(ω )= c and a constant dephasing rate γ(t)= c/2. This
leads to an exponential decay of the coherences pþ;i;x ðmx Þ
¼ 1
2 1 þð /C01Þmx e/C0ti =T2
/C0/C1
,w h e r emx ∈ {0, 1} correspond to the projective
measurements on ∣þi; ∣/C0i, respectively, and we have introduced a deco-
herence timeT2 =2 /c. If the real system is affected by white dephasing noise,
there is thus a single noise parameter to learnθ⋆ = c⋆ or, alternatively, the
real decoherence timeθ⋆ = T2⋆. We note that this procedure is in complete
agreement with the LQT based on the corresponding Lindblad master
equation in Eq. (2). On the other hand, for a time-correlated dephasing noise
with a structured PSD, the coherence decay will generally differ from the
above exponential law, with the exception of the long-time regimet
i ≫ τc,
where pþ;i;x ðmx Þ/C251
2 1 þð /C01Þmx e/C0ti =T2
/C0/C1
and one ﬁn d sa ne f f e c t i v e
decoherence time controlled by the static part of the PSDT2 =2 /S(0). As ti
increases towards τc, the decay will no longer be a time-homogeneous
exponential, which can actually be a consequence of (but not a prerequisite
for) a non-Markovian quantum evolution. In this more general situation, we
will have more noise parametersθ
⋆ to learn.
Let us now connect to the formalism of ﬁlter functions40,41,43,44,114–117,
which appears naturally when considering the time evolution of the
coherences at any instant of time. This follows from the exact solution of the
time-local master equation in the rotating frame, which reads
p
TL
þ;i;x ðmx Þ¼ 1
2 1 þð /C01Þmx e/C0Γðti Þ/C0/C1
¼: pTL
i ðmx Þ; ð25Þ
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 6

=== Page 7 ===
w h e r ew eh a v ei n t r o d u c e dt h et i m ei n t e g r a lo ft h ed e c a yr a t e s
ΓðtÞ¼ 2
Z t
0
dt0γðt0Þ; ð26Þ
and simpliﬁed the notation by omitting the initial state and the measure-
ment basis, as they will be unique for the estimation of the dephasing map.
Using the Fourier transform in Eq. ( 22), this integral can be rewritten in
terms of the noise PSD as
ΓðtÞ¼
Z 1
/C01
dω Sðω ÞFΓðω ; tÞ; FΓðω ; tÞ¼
Z t
0
dt0f γðω ; t0Þ; ð27Þ
w h e r ew eh a v ei n t r o d u c e daﬁlter function that reads
FΓðω ; tÞ¼ t
2 η2
t
ðω Þ: ð28Þ
Note that, by making use of the nascent Dirac delta
ηϵðxÞ¼ ϵ
πx2 sin2 x
ϵ
/C16/C17
; ð29Þ
where ηϵ(x) → δ(x)a s ϵ → 0+,a n d
R 1
/C01dx ηϵðxÞ¼ 1, one sees that in the
long-time limit ϵ =2 / t → 0+, ~f Γðω ; tÞ/C25t
2 δðω Þ becomes a Dirac delta
distribution, such that Γ(t) ≈ tS(0)/2. This agrees with the above coarse-
grained prediction for a decoherence timeT2 =2 /S(0). Therefore, physically,
the conditions for the long-time limit to be accurate is thatt ≫ τc.
In this article, we are not interested in this Markovian limit, as we
aim at estimating the time-local master equation that depends on the
full decay rate γ(t), including situations in which non-Markovianity
becomes manifest. To quantify this, we note that the dephasing
quantum dynamical map
E
TL
t;0 ðρ0Þ¼ð 1 /C0pðtÞÞρ0 þ pðtÞσz ρ0 σz ; ð30Þ
is non-Markovian when it is not CP-divisible. In Eq. ( 30), we have
introduced the following time-dependent probability for the occurrence of
phase-ﬂip errors
pðtÞ¼ 1
2 1 /C0e/C0ΓðtÞ/C0/C1
: ð31Þ
Following105, the degree of non-Markovianity of the quantum evolution can
be obtained by integrating over all times for which the rate of the time-local
ρ0,0 = | +⟩ ⟨+ |
Initial state
ρ0
reference 
 state
ℋ SE
ℋ S
Time-evolved states Outcomes
TL({pk(θ), fk})
{f+,i,x(mx | θ⋆ )}
Non-linear  
minimization
̂θF ={ ̂T2, ̂τc,⋯ }
Quantum
Classical
− ∇
ω L = ω 0
π/2 pulse
δ ˜ω (t) ω L = ω 0
π/2 pulse
ℰ ti,t0
(ρ0,0)
Time-evolved observables 
{pTL
+,i,x(mx | θ)}
Filter and PSD functions
Sθ(ω )FΓ(ω , t)
Time-local master equation
dρ
dt = (t)ρ(t)
(t)= ˜ℒ t(1 − ˜Σ(t))−1
Kernel cumulant expansion
Estimated noise 
Filtered noise integrals 
Qubit coherence 
for 
Ramsey estimation
t1 t2 t3
t1 t2 t3
Ramsey 
decay 
signal
Cov ̂θF
Frequentist
Bayesian  
{ti,opt}
πℓ(θ| ℓ)
{N+,iℓ,x,mxℓ
(θ⋆ )}
Information-gain 
maximization
̂θB ={ ̂T2,ℓ, ̂τc,ℓ,⋯ }
Estimated noise 
ℓ ↦ ℓ +1 , { ti,ℓ+1}
Fig. 1 | Scheme for L ℓQT protocol of a dynamical dephasing map. In the case of
pure dephasing, the LℓQT scheme reduces to a problem of Ramsey estimation. In the
QIP, the qubit is initialized in a single state in the equator of Bloch ’s sphere ρ0;0 ¼
∣þi þh ∣by a resonant driving inducing a π/2 pulse on a reference state ρ0 ¼ ∣0i 0h ∣.
The qubit then evolves for different times ti : i 2 It , after which it is subjected to
another resonant π/2 pulse, which effectively rotates to the Pauli measurement basis
x. As a consequence of the device dephasing noise with actual noise θ⋆ parameters,
the mx ∈ {0, 1} outcomes are collected as relative frequencies { f+,i,x(mx∣θ⋆)} which
will decay in time. This data can be collected by distributing the measurement shots
among pre-ﬁxed evolution times, connecting to the frequentist estimation protocol.
Alternatively, in a Bayesian approach, one collects the data by successive ℓ-update
steps δD
‘ ¼f Nþ;i‘ ;x;mx;‘
ðθ?Þg. In the lower half, we show the classical part of the
estimation, which starts by solving the time-local master equation for a particular
parametrized power spectral density Sθ(ω ) and ﬁlter function. This leads to the
theoretically predicted probabilities fpTL
þ;iðmx jθÞg. These probabilities and the rela-
tive frequencies are either fed into a log-likelihood cost functionCTLðθÞ that must be
minimized in order to obtain the frequentist estimateθF, or used in a Bayesian step to
update our prior knowledge of the noise parameters π‘ðθjD‘Þ, converging to the
ﬁnal Bayesian estimate θB. In the frequentist approach, by calculating the covariance
matrix, we can estimate the precision and ﬁnd the optimal measurement times,
which will depend on how many noise parameters we aim at estimating, and changes
with their speci ﬁc values. In the Bayesian approach, knowledge about the noise
parameters is updated sequentially by selecting evolution times that are expected to
yield the greatest information gain at each step, thereby implementing feedback and
adaptive data acquisition from the quantum device.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 7

=== Page 8 ===
master equation is negative
NCP ¼
Z
dt jγðtÞj /C0γðtÞ
/C0/C1
: ð32Þ
An alternatively measure of non-Markovianity is based on the trace distance
of two arbitrary initial states52,118, which will decrease with time when there is
a ﬂow of information from the system into the noisy environment. When
this informationﬂows back, the trace distanceincreases, and the qubit can
recohere for a ﬁnite lapse of time, such that one gets a non-Markovian
quantum evolution. The instantaneous variation of trace distance is given by
σðtÞ¼
d
dt DðETL
t;0 ðρ0Þ; ETL
t;0 ðρ0
0ÞÞ,w i t h D being the trace distance 1,a n da
positiveσ(t) is thus a measure of non-Markovianity, which can be expressed
in terms of the time intervals in which the phase- ﬂip error probability
decreases inﬁnitesimally with time
NTD ¼ max
ρ0 ;ρ0
0
Z
σðtÞ >0
dt σðtÞ¼/C0
Z
γðtÞ <0
dt _pðtÞ: ð33Þ
Here, we have rewritten this measure in terms of the error probability of the
phase-ﬂip channel of Eq. ( 31), which changes in ﬁnitesimally with
_pðtÞ¼ γðtÞe/C0ΓðtÞ. Hence, the non-Markovianity condition translates into a
dynamical situation in which phase-ﬂip errors do not increase monotonically
during the whole evolution. When the dephasing rate attains negative values,
the phase-ﬂip error probability can decrease, such that the qubit momentarily
r e c o h e r e s( s e et h eo r a n g el i n e si nF i g .1). In this simple case of pure dephasing
noise, we see that both measures of non-Markovianity in Eqs. (32)a n d(33)
depend on the rateγ(t) attaining negative values, and both are equal to 0 ifγ(t)
is always positive. We deﬁne and detect non-Markovianity in this case using
Eqs. (32)a n d( 33). However, it is important to note that these measures
provide sufﬁcient, but not necessary, conditions for detecting all possible
forms of non-Markovian behavior. For instance, certain non-Markovian
dynamics may not yield an increase in trace distance.
Once these additional properties of the dephasing quantum dynamical
map have been discussed, we can move back to the estimation LℓQT pro-
tocol of Eq. (7), and how it can be simpliﬁed even further. As noted above, in
contrast to the informationally-complete set of initial states an measure-
ments that must be considered for the general cost function of LℓQT in Eq.
(5), we can work with a smaller number of conﬁg u r a t i o n sb yn o t i n gt h a ta l l
information of the dephasing map can be extracted by preparing a single
initial state ρ
0 ¼ ∣þi þh ∣, and measuring in a single basisMx,± (see Fig. 1).
Indeed, this combination of initial state and measurement basis yields the
expected value pTL
þ;i;x ðmx Þ¼ 1
2 ð1 þð /C01Þmx e/C0Γðti ÞÞ. Similarly, if we chose
ρ0 ¼ ∣þ ii þih ∣ and My,±, we would obtain pTL
þi;i;y ðmyÞ
¼ 1
2 ð1 þð /C01Þmy e/C0Γðti ÞÞ, which yields the same information. The rest of
combinations of initial states and measurement bases yield constant values
and do not provide any information about the decay rates.
As advanced in the introduction, we would like to know how many
snapshotsjI
t j are required, at which the system is measured after evolving
for fti : i 2 It g and, moreover, which are the optimal times of those
snapshots in terms of the speci ﬁcd e t a i l so ft h en o i s e .W et a k eh e r et w o
different routes: the frequentist an d the Bayesian approach. In the fre-
quentist case, for pure dephasing we have the cost function
Cpd
TLðθÞ¼/C0
X
i
Ni
X
mx
~f iðmx jθ?Þ log pTL
i ðmx jθÞ; ð34Þ
which is greatly simpliﬁed with respect to the general case in Eq. (8), as we
only have a single initial state and a single measurement basis. Since we are
monitoring the coherence of the qubit, this cost function corresponds to a
Ramsey-type estimator,w h e r e~f
ið0 jθ?Þ¼ Ni;0=Ni ð~f ið1 jθ?Þ¼ Ni;1=NiÞ is
the ratio of the number of outcomes observedNi,0 (Ni,1 = Ni − Ni,0)t ot h e
total ofNi shots collected at the instant of timeti, when measuring the system
with the POVM element Mx,0 (Mx,1). Our notation remarks that these
relative frequencies carry information about the real noise parametersθ⋆ we
aim at estimating. In addition, the estimator depends onpi(mx∣θ)s h o w ni n
Eqs. (25)–(26), which stand for the probabilities obtained by solving the
time-local dephasing master equation of Eq. (20) ,w h e r ew em a k ee x p l i c i t
the dependence on the parametr ized noise. Minimizing det Σ^θ we can
determine the optimal measureme nt times of the estimator. For the
Bayesian approach, at each ℓ > 0 Bayesian step, we measure the system
enlarging the data set sequentially D‘/C017!D‘ ¼ D‘/C01 ∪ δD‘,w h e r e
δD‘ /C26D ¼f Ni;þ;x;mx
g contains a number of measurement outcomes
∣δNℓ∣that is a fraction of the totalNshot. These outcomes will be labelled as
δD‘ ¼f Ni‘ ;þ;x;mx‘
g. At each step, we maximize the information gain of Eq.
(19) to determine the optimal measurement time. As shown in Fig. 1 the
scheme for L ℓQ Ti nt h ec a s eo fp u r ed e p h a s i n gc a nb ed i v i d e di n t ot h e
following steps:
a) Quantum experiment:
1. Initialize the reference state ρ0 ¼ ∣0i 0h ∣(see Fig. 1).
2. Prepare ρ0;0 ¼ ∣þi þh ∣by a resonant π/2 pulse.
3 . L e tt h eq u b i te v o l v eu n d e rt h ep u r edephasing for different evolution
times ti.
4. Apply a second resonant π/2 pulse, rotating the qubit to the Pauli-X
measurement basis.
5. Collect the outcomes mx ∈ {0, 1} and compute the fre-
quencies f f þ;i;mx
g.
b) Classical processing and frequentist approach:
1. Solve the time-local master equation with a parametrized power
spectral density Sθ(ω)a n da ﬁlter function, yielding the predicted
probabilitiesfpþ;i;mx
ðθÞg.
2. From the quantum experiment we have a set of frequenciesf f þ;i;mx
g at
different times ti.T h ep r e d i c t e dp r o b a b i l i t i e sa n dm e a s u r e dr e l a t i v e
frequencies are used in a log-likelihood cost function, which is
minimized to estimate noise parametersθ.
3. By calculating the covariance matrix, the precision of the estimation is
determined.
c) Classical processing and Bayesian approach:
1. Solve the time-local master equation with a parametrized power
spectral density S
θ(ω)a n da ﬁlter function, yielding the predicted
probabilitiesfpþ;i;mx
ðθÞg.
2. We have some prior knowledge of the parameters θ,w h i c hi sr e p r e -
sented by a prior probability distribution.
3. At each step, evolution time ti is chosen to maximize the information
gain of the parameters. A new quantum experiment is performed with
this new evolution time.
4. After each measurement or set of measurements the relative fre-
quencies are used to update the prior distribution of the parameters.
We present below a detailed comparison of the two approaches, fre-
quentist and Bayesian, determining the regimes in which each of them is
better than the other. For the Bayesian protocol design, we have used the
Python package Qinfer119, which numerically implements the operations
needed by using a sequential Monte Carlo algorithm for the updates.
Let us study some dephasing dynamics in which we can apply the two
approaches we have just introduced, and make a comparative study of their
performance when learning parame trized dephasing maps with time-
correlated noise. We study two different dephasing models: a Markovian
semi-classical dephasing and a non-Markovian quantum dephasing. These
models are selected for several reasons. The semi-classical model is a well-
established generalization of purely Lindbladian evolution, and in fact,
contains the Lindbladian regime as a limiting case. This allows us to connect
with previous results from LQT and Ramsey interferometry in the context of
quantum sensing and quantum clocks. On the other hand, the non-
Markovian case represents the simplest possible generalization of the
Markovian scenario by introducing a shifted Lorentzian PSD, making it an
ideal testbed for LℓQT. Furthermore, it has experimental relevance, as we
can use a laser-cooled vibrational mode in trapped ions to obtain a fully-
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 8

=== Page 9 ===
tunable implementation of this non-Markovian noise. These two dephasing
models offer both classical and quantum noise characterization through the
symmetry of the PSD, and they provid e a versatile platform to demon-
strate LℓQT.
Regarding the choice between frequentist and Bayesian inference, the
majority of quantum technologies traditionally use frequentist approaches.
However, Bayesian inference is becoming increasingly relevant, particularly
in situations where the number of shots is limited and clock cycle times are
large, such as in trapped-ion platf orms. As we show below, Bayesian
methods offer advantages in scenarios where physical priors are available
and can provide better estimates in non-Markovian cases, where the
d y n a m i c sa r em o r ec o m p l e x .
For each one of the cases presented below, we have a PSD with some
real parameters θ
⋆ from which we can determine the time-dependent
measurement probabilities pTL
i ðmx jθ?Þ. From these probabilities, we
numerically take the necessary samples to simulate the experiment by using
the SciPy implementation of a binomial random variable120.
Markovian semi-classical dephasing
We now apply both estimation techniques for the L ℓQT of a dephasing
quantum dynamical map that goes beyond the Markovian Lindblad
assumptions. In particular, we consider a time-correlated frequency noise
δ~ω ðtÞ that is described by an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck (OU) random
process
121,122. This process has an underlying multi-variate Gaussian joint
PDF, and incorporates a correlation timeτc > 0 above which the correlations
between consecutive values of the process become very small. In fact,
beyond the relaxation window t; t0 > τc, the correlations show an expo-
nential decay
Cðt /C0t0Þ¼ cτc
2 e/C0jt/C0t0 j
τc ; ð35Þ
where c > 0 is a so-called diffusion constan t. Since this correlations only
depend on the time differences, the process is wide-sense stationary.
Moreover, on the basis of its Gaussian joint PDF, it can be shown that the
process is indeed strictly stationary. Being Gaussian, all the information is
thus contained in its two-point functions or, alternatively, in its PSD
Sðω Þ¼
cτ2
c
1 þð ωτcÞ2 ; ð36Þ
which has a Lorentzian shape. This Gaussian process then leads to an exact
time-local master equation for the dephasing of the qubit in Eq. (20)w i t ha
time-dependent decay rate
γðtÞ¼ 1
4 Sð0Þ 1 /C0e/C0t
τc
/C16/C17
: ð37Þ
In the long-time limit t ≫ τc, one recovers a constant decay rate
γðtÞ/C25Sð0Þ=4 ¼ cτ2
c =4, which connects to our previous discussion of the
effective exponential de cay of the Ramsey signal pTL
i ðmx Þ/C25
1 þð /C01Þmx e/C0ti =T2
/C0/C1
=2 and the decoherence time T2 ¼ 2=cτ2
c .O nt h e
other hand, for shorter time scales, we see the effects of the noise memory
through a time-inhomogeneous evolution of the coherences that goes
beyond a Lindbladian description. The time-dependent decay rate is always
positive, such that the two measures of non-Markovianity in Eqs. (32)-(33)
vanish exactly. The pure dephasing quantum dynamical map of a qubit
subjected to OU frequency noise is thusMarkovian albeit not Lindbladian.
From the perspective of L ℓQ T ,w eh a v et w op a r a m e t e r st ol e a r n
θ ¼ð c; τ
cÞ2 Θ ¼ R2
þ, which fully parametrize the PSD, the decay rate or,
alternatively, the Ramsey attenuation factor
ΓðtÞ¼ 1
2 Sð0Þ t /C0τc 1 /C0e/C0t
τc
/C16/C17/C16/C17
: ð38Þ
a. Frequentist Ramsey estimators. We can now evaluate the LℓQT cost
functionCpd
TLðθÞ in Eq. (34) by substituting the attenuation factor in Eq. (38)i n
the likelihood functionpTL
i ðmx jθÞ¼ 1 þð /C01Þmx e/C0Γðti Þ/C0/C1
=2a f t e rac e r t a i n
set of evolution timesfti; i 2 It g, and the relative frequencies for the mea-
surement outcomes~f iðmx jθ?Þ. For a Lindbladian dynamics, a single mea-
suring timet1 would sufﬁce for the estimation90, which can actually be solved
for analytically in the present pure dephasing context, as discussed in Sec. I of
the Supplementary Material. For the OU dephasing, this is no longer the case,
and we actually need at least two timest
1, t2. In order to assess the performance
of the frequentist minimization problem in Eq. ( 9) under shot noise, we
numerically generate the relative frequencies~f 1ðmx jθ?Þ; ~f 2ðmx jθ?Þ at two
instants of time by sampling the probability distribution with the actual OU
parametersθ⋆ =( c⋆, τc⋆) a number of timesNshot= N1 + N2. In the following,
rather than learning (c⋆, τc⋆), we will focus on two noise parameters with units
of time (T2⋆, τc⋆), where we recall that T2? ¼ 2=c?τ2
c? is an effective deco-
herence time in the long-time limit. In Fig.2, we present a contour plot of this
two-time cost functionCpd
TLðθÞ, which is actually convex and allows for a neat
visualization of its global minimum. We also depict with a red cross the result
of a gradient-descent minimization, where one can see that the estimates
^θF ¼ð ^T2; ^τcÞ are close to the real noise parameters. The imprecision of the
estimate is a result of the shot noise, which we now quantify.
In order to ﬁnd the optimal evolution times t1, t2 that maximize the
precision of our estimates, we can minimize the covariance in Eq. ( 13)
which, in turn, requires maximizing the Fisher information matrix in Eq.
(12). By Taylor expanding the cost function, we can actually ﬁnd a linear
relation between the estimate differenceδ^θ ¼ ^θ
F /C0θ?, and the differences
between the parametrized probabilities and the relative frequencies
δ~f
i ¼ pTL
i ðmx j^θÞ/C0 ~f iðmx jθ?Þ,n a m e l y
δ^T2
δ^τc
 !
¼ 1
N
/C0
Γ0
τc ðt2 Þðe2Γðt1 Þ /C01Þ
sinhΓðt1 Þ
Γ0
τc ðt1 Þðe2Γðt2 Þ /C01Þ
sinh Γðt2 Þ
Γ0
T2 ðt2 Þðe2Γðt1 Þ /C01Þ
sinhΓðt1 Þ /C0
Γ0
T2 ðt1 Þðe2Γðt2 Þ /C01Þ
sinh Γðt2 Þ
0
B@
1
CA δ~f 1
δ~f 2
 !
; ð39Þ
where N ¼ Γ0
T2
ðt1ÞΓ0
τc
ðt2Þ/C0 Γ0
τc
ðt1ÞΓ0
T2
ðt2Þ, and we have introduced a
shorthand notation for the partial derivatives Γ0
τðtiÞ¼ ∂ΓðtiÞ=∂τc,
Fig. 2 | Gradient descent for OU dephasing LℓQT. Contour plot of the Ramsey cost
functionCpd
TLðθÞ of Eq. (34) as a function of the noise parameters (T2, τc), where we recall
that T2 ¼ 2=cτ2
c plays the role of an effective decoherence time in the long-time limit.
We choose two evolution times and, for illustration purposes,ﬁxt h e ma tt1 = τc⋆, t2 =
2τc⋆, ﬁxing the OU diffusion constant such thatT2⋆/τc⋆ =1 .W ed i s t r i b u t eNshot =
2×1 0 3 shots equally per time step. The gradient descent of this convex problem con-
verges towards the global minimum, and is marked with a red cross atT2/T2⋆ ≈ 0.95 and
τc/τc⋆ ≈ 1.07, lying close to the real noise parametersθ ↦ θ⋆.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 9

=== Page 10 ===
Γ0
T2
ðtiÞ¼ ∂ΓðtiÞ=∂T2.T h eﬁrst thing one notices is that, ﬁxing t2 = t1,t h e
factorN ¼ 0, and the difference between theestimation and the true value
of the parameters diverges, signaling the fact that one cannot learn two noise
parameters using a Ramsey estimato r with a single instant of time. The
second result oneﬁnds is that, in the asymptotic limitNi → ∞, the estimate
differences will follow a bi-variate normal distribution. This follows from the
fact that Eq. (39) is a linear combination of the differences between theﬁnite
frequencies and the binomial probabilities, which are known to follow a
normal distribution N 0; diag σ2
f 1
; σ2
f 2
/C16/C17/C16/C17
with binomial variances σ2
f i
deﬁned in Eq. (15). Therefore, the frequentist estimates will also be normally
distributedδ^θ /C24N 0; Σ^θ
/C0/C1
according to
Σ^θðt1; t2Þ¼ M^θðt1; t2Þ
σ2
f 1
0
0 σ2
f 2
 !
MT
^θ ðt1; t2Þ; ð40Þ
where M^θðt1; t2Þ is the matrix in Eq. (39). A more detailed derivation of the
relationship between shot noise and the uncertainty in estimation, as well as
the asymptotic covariance matrix, is provided in the Methods section. From
this perspective, the aforementioned divergence fort
1 = t2 is a consequence
of the singular nature of this matrix, which cannot be thus inverted.
A measure of the imprecision of the estimation is then obtained from
detðΣ^θðt1; t2ÞÞ ¼ ð det M^θÞ2σ2
f 1
σ2
f
2
/ 1=N1N2 ¼ 1=N1ðNshot /C0N1Þ
which, in this bi-variate case, can be related to the area enclosed by a
covariance ellipse. We thus clearly see that the maximum precision will be
obtained when N
1 = N2 = Nshot/2. Turning to the optimal measurement
times, we can now numerically minimize the determinant of the asymptotic
covariance matrix
ft
i;optg¼ argmin det Σ^θ ftig
/C0/C1/C8/C9
; ð41Þ
ﬁnding the two optimal values at which the signal shows the highest
sensitivity to changes in the OU noise (see Fig. 3). The optimal times
obtained in this way are depicted in Fig. 4 as a function of the noise
correlation time. In the limit where this correlation time is much smaller
than the effective decoherence time τ
c⋆ ≪ T2⋆, the signal only carries
important information about the noise for times that are much larger
than the correlation time. Hence, we are in the long-time limit where the
decay rate is constantγ(t) ≈ 1/2T
2 and one expects toﬁnd agreement with
a purely Lindbladian dephasing noise. As discussed in Sec. I of the
Supplementary Material, the LQT for pure dephasing requires a single
measuring time, and can be analytically found by minimizing the
standard deviation of the estimated noise parameter. This solution yields
an optimal time t
opt = 0.797 T2⋆, which is actually very close to the
intercept of the curve oft2,opt shown in Fig.4. In this long-time regime, we
ﬁnd t1,opt ≈ 0 indicating that measurements at time t2,opt will be mainly
used to determine parameter T2, while those at t1,opt ≈ 0 contribute to
determine the much smaller τc.
In the more general case in which the time correlation of the OU noise
yields important memory effects, the measurement times have to be adapted
to speci ﬁc optimal values, which are in general larger than the purely
Lindbladian limit as shown in Fig.4. Since these optimal times depend on
the parameters we aim at learning, it is not straightforward to devise a
practical strategy to minimise the imprecision of the frequentist estimates.
In the pure Lindbladian case, one may foresee that the experimentalist will
have an accurate prior knowledge of the T
2 time, such that the measure-
ments can all be implemented close to the predicted optimal time. On the
other hand, for the OU noise, one has the additional noise correlation time
τ
c, which is related to deviations from the time-homogeneous exponential
decay of the coherences and is not typically characterised experimentally.
The frequentist procedure to operate at the optimal regime of estimation
would then need to distribute the total N
shot in smaller groups that are
applied in sequence, each time shifting the measurement times to try to get
t ot h eo p t i m a lp o i n t .O n ec a nf o r e s e et h a tt h i sp r o c e d u r ew i l ln o tb eo p t i m a l ,
as one will loose many measurements along the way and, moreover, not
scalable to other situations in which one aims at learning more noise
parameters also optimally.
b. Bayesian Ramsey estimators. Let us now describe how a Bayesian
inference for OU dephasing LℓQT would proceed, which will provide an
experimental procedure to operate at the optimal estimation times. We start
by commenting on the fully-uncorrelated Lindbladian limit discussed in
Sec. I of the Supplementary Materia l, where the optimization of the
Fig. 3 | Asymptotic covariance matrix for OU dephasing. We represent
det ðΣ^θðt1; t2ÞÞ1=2 as a function of thet1 and t2 measurement times selected. Fort1 = t2
the determinant diverges, since it is not possible to determine the parameters by just
measuring at a single time. The true parameters are τc⋆ = T2⋆/2 and the number of
shots is N1 = N2 =5 ⋅103. The optimal times that minimize the determinant are
indicated with a white cross, t1 ≈ 0.56T2⋆, t2 ≈ 1.99T2⋆. The determinant increases
rapidly when moving away from this minimum. Note the color bar scale is loga-
rithmic. The plot is symmetric with respect to the line t
1 = t2, therefore we just
represent the part t2 > t1.
Fig. 4 | Optimal times for OU dephasing L ℓQT. We represent ðt1;opt; t2;optÞ¼
argminfdetðΣðt1; t2ÞÞg as a function of the ratio of the real noise parametersτc⋆/T2⋆.
In the regime where τc⋆ ≪ T2⋆,w e ﬁnd that t2 ≈ 0.8T2⋆ and t1 ≈ 0. The optimal time
of this measurement lies very close to the Lindbladian result t = 0.797T2⋆ (gray
dashed line) found when there is no time correlation and we have a single parameter
Tc, which is an exact analytical result discussed in Sec. I of the Supplementary
Material.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 10

=== Page 11 ===
measurement time for each Bayesian step in Eq. ( 19) can also be solved
analytically. Considering that the prior probability distributionπℓ(γ)f o ro u r
knowledge about the decay rate at theℓ-th step is Gaussian, we can focus on
how its mean and variance change as one takes the next Bayesian step. In
Sec. I of the Supplementary Material, we show that, minimizing the Bayesian
variance of the next step, one ﬁnds optimal measurement times that agree
with the above frequentist prediction,albeit for the knowledge of the decay
rate that we actually have at each particular step t‘ ¼ 0:797=2^γ‘ or, alter-
natively, of the decoherence timeT2,ℓ. This result is very encouraging, as the
experimentalist may only have a crude guess of this value, but it gets
automatically updated towards the optimal regime. This motivates an
extension to time-correlated dephasing such as the OU noise.
For the OU dephasing, we have two parameters to learn, and we
can maximize the Kullback-Leibler divergence of Eq. ( 19) to obtain the
subsequent optimal time t
ℓ for the next Ramsey measurement(s), and
the corresponding extension of the data set D‘/C017!δD‘
¼ D‘/C01 ∪δD‘/C01. We then proceed by measuring at this time, updating
the prior, and starting the optimization step all over again to ﬁnally ﬁnd
the estimates in Eq. ( 17) ^θB ¼ð ^τc;‘; ^T2;‘Þ. As shown in Fig. 5,a so n e
collects more and more data, the Bayesian measurement times cluster at
two single times, and tend to alte rnate between them. Remarkably,
these times are the optimal t1,opt and t2,opt predictions of the frequentist
approach shown in Fig. 4. We can see how the Bayesian approach
automatically ﬁnds the optimal measurement setting to learn a time-
correlated dephasing noise.
Let us now present a detailed comparison of the precision of the fre-
quentist and Bayesian approaches. For the frequentist approach, we can
obtain the expected covariance of the estimator Cov ð^θFÞ by performing
several runs, and computing the covariance matrix of the results. We
emphasise that this is not the asymptoticΣ
^θ discussed previously, and does
not require a very large number of measurement shots. For the Bayesian
approach we obtain a posterior probability distribution afterℓ steps, π
ℓ(θ),
and we can directly compute the covariance matrix Σℓ of this posterior
distribution. A good measure of the uncertainty of each one of the
approaches can be obtained by taking the determinant of the corresponding
covariance matrix. For a Gaussiandistribution, this quantity detΣ gives us
the elliptical area associated to the bi-variate Gaussian covariance, and we
can deﬁne an average radius /C22R ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
det Σ
p
=π.I no r d e rf o rt h i st os c a l ea s
1= ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃN
shot
p and that it has the same units as the standard deviation, we will
use the square root of this radius det Σ1=4.T h e r e f o r e ,w ew i l lc o m p a r e
det Σ1=4 for both frequentist and Bayesian approaches by taking the ratio of
the determinants,
rOU ¼
ﬃﬃ
½
p
4/C138
det Cov ð^θF;optÞ
/C16/C17
det Σ‘max
; ð42Þ
with ^θF;opt the frequentist estimator taking measurements at optimal times
and considering for both approaches the same number of total measure-
mentsNshot. This ratio is represented in Fig.6 as a function ofτc,⋆/T2⋆.A sw e
can see, the Bayesian approach is better for small number of measurements,
since it has some prior knowledge of the parameters. As we make more
measurements and the frequentist estimator keeps measuring at optimal
times we get to the opposite situation. Finally, in the limit of big N
shot the
Bayesian approach takes also most m easurements at these optimal times
and the ratio saturates to rOU ≈ 1, indicating that both approaches offer a
similar precision. Let us emphasize, however, that the frequentist approach
will not operate in practice at the optimal times, as these depend on the noise
parameters one aims at estimating. It is also interesting to note that, as the
correlation time of the noise increases, the region where the Bayesian
strategy overcomes the frequentist one grows also in terms of the required
number of shots. In regimes in which the time correlations are much larger
than the effective decoherence time, the Bayesian approach will always be
preferred unless one can perform a prohibitively-large number of
measurements.
Non-Markovian quantum dephasing
Let us now move on to the discussion of L ℓQT for a non-Markovian
dephasing dynamics. In the previous section, we have shown that a semi-
classical dephasing with OU noise, an archetype for time-correlated
Gaussian random processes, yiel ds a dephasing map that, although
departing from the time-homogeneousLindbladian case, does not fall under
the class of non-Markovian quantumdynamical maps. We have shown how
Fig. 5 | Bayesian optimal measurement time at each step. We consider OU noise
and set τc⋆ = T2⋆/2. The prior of the parameters is a continuous uniform distribution
with T2 ∈ [T2⋆/3, 3T2⋆], τ∈ [τc⋆/3, 3τc⋆]. At each Bayesian step, we increase the data
set with jδD‘j¼ 50 new outcomes, which are used to compute the Bayesian update.
The total number of measurements after 500 steps is 500 × 50 = 25000. In the
Bayesian steps at the beginning, we see that the evolution times lie around t ~ T2⋆.
Later on, the algorithm tends to alternate between two times, which correspond to
the optimal times t
1,opt ≈ 0.56T2⋆, t2,opt ≈ 1.99T2⋆ in the case of τc⋆ = T2⋆/2. As the
number of steps increases and and the posterior gets closer to the true values of τc⋆
and T2⋆, the Bayesian algorithm tends to select measurement times which are closer
to the optimal times.
Fig. 6 | Comparison of frequentist and Bayesian approaches for OU noise. The
ratio of Eq. ( 42) computed for different parameter values τc⋆ and total number of
shots Nshot. 5000 frequentist runs were done to estimate det Cov ð^θF;optÞ, while 200
Bayesian runs were done to estimate det Σ‘max
for each point ( τc,⋆, Nshot). In the
Bayesian approach 100 shots were taken at each step and the prior is a continuous
uniform distribution with T2 ∈ [T2⋆/3, 3T2⋆], τ∈ [τc⋆/3, 3τc⋆]. Analogously, for the
least-squares minimization algorithm used in the frequentist approach (trust-region
reﬂective algorithm), we set the same parameter bounds as the ones of the uniform
distribution.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 11

=== Page 12 ===
both the frequentist and Bayesian approaches can learn the time-local
master equation, which is parametrized in terms of an effective decoherence
time T2 and a correlation time τc.I nt h i ss e c t i o n ,w ef o c u so naq u a n t u m -
mechanical dephasing noise that can actually lead to non-Markovianity in
the qubit evolution, and see how the degree of non-Markovianity affects the
precision of both the frequentist and LℓQ T .W ec o n s i d e ra na p p a r e n t l ym i l d
modiﬁcation of the noise PSD with respect to the OU case in Eq. ( 36). In
particular, we use
Sðω Þ¼ 4g2
/C22n
κ
ðω þ ΔcÞ2 þð κ=2Þ2 ; ð43Þ
which is a Lorentzian of width κ centered around − Δc, and reaching a
maximum of 16g2
/C22n=κ.W en o t et h a tf o rΔc = 0, we recover the previous OU
case (36)w i t hτc =2 /κ and c ¼ 4g2
/C22nκ. On the other hand, forΔc ≠ 0, this PSD
is not an even function S(ω ) ≠ S(− ω ), and the associated frequency noise
cannot arise from a semi-cl assical stochastic model 123. Instead, this
particular PSD can be deduced from a quantum-mechanical dephasing
model as discussed in the Methods section, and applied to a qubit coupled to
a dissipative bosonic mode.In the context of superconducting circuits
124, Δc
is the detuning of a bosonic microwave resonator with respect to the
frequency of an external driving, which is considered to be resonant with the
qubit, such thatΔ
c = ω c − ω 0.I na d d i t i o n ,g is a qubit-resonator cross-Kerr
coupling that leads to a bosonic enhancement g2
/C22n ¼ g2/C22n,w h e r e/C22n is the
average bosonic occupation of the driven resonator, and κ i st h er a t eo f
spontaneous emission/loss of photons into the electromagnetic environ-
ment. We note that a similar dynamics can be engineered in a two-ion
crystal, in analogy to125, such that one of the ions encodes the qubit in a pair
of ground state/metastable levels, while the other one is continuously
Doppler cooled via a laser that is red-detuned with respect to a dipole-
allowed transition. This laser then drives the carrier and motional sidebands,
and effectively laser cools the common vibrational modes, one of which will
play the role of the above dissipative bosonic mode, such that the aboveω
c
will now be its vibrational frequency. The role of the aboveκ is then played
by the laser cooling rate, and the phonon population in the steady state /C22n
depends on the difference of laser cooling and heating processes126,w h i c h
can be controlled by the Rabi frequency and detuning of the laser that drives
the dipole-allowed transition. The dissipative phonons will then act as an
effective Lorentzian bath for the qubits125,127,128. We consider the qubit to be
subjected to a far-detuned sideband coupling, which induces a second-order
cross-Kerr coupling of strengthg describing a phonon-dependent ac-Stark
s h i f to nt h eq u b i tl e v e l s .
In any of the two architectures discussed, when the coupling between
the bosonic mode and the qubit is weaker than the dissipative rate g
/C22n≪ κ,
one can truncate the cumulant expansion of a time-convolutionless master
equation of the qubit at second order such that, after tracing over the driven-
dissipative mode in its stationary state, one arrives at a time-local dephasing
master equation of the form given in Eq. (20). This master equation will be
controlled by an auto-correlation function for the bath operator
BðtÞ¼ 2gða
ya /C0/C22nÞ, following the notation used below Eq. (21)a n di nt h e
Methods section. In particular, ma king use of the quantum regression
theorem129, this auto-correlation can be expressed as
Cðt /C0t0Þ¼ 4g2
/C22ne/C0κ
2jt/C0t0 je/C0iΔc ðt/C0t0 Þ; ð44Þ
which coincides with the OU auto-correlation function in Eq. (35)w h e nΔc
= 0. Being wide-sense stationary, one can Fourier transform this function as
s h o w ni nE q .(22), leading to the displaced Lorentzian PSD in Eq. ( 43).
Following Eq. (23), one can obtain the following time-dependent decay rate
γðtÞ¼ 1
4 Sð0Þ 1 /C0e/C0κ
2t cos Δct þ 2Δc
κ sin Δct
/C18/C19/C18/C19
: ð45Þ
In comparison to Eq. ( 37), this decay rate presents additional oscillatory
terms forΔc ≠ 0 that will play an important role for the non-Markovianity of
the quantum dynamical map. The attenua t i o nf a c t o rt h a tc o n t r o l st h ed e c a y
of the coherence is
ΓðtÞ¼ Sð0Þ
2 t þ 2
κ
ð2Δc=κÞ2 /C01
ð2Δc=κÞ2 þ 1
þ 2
κ e/C0κ
2t cos φðtÞ
 !
; ð46Þ
w h e r ew eh a v ei n t r o d u c e dφðtÞ¼ Δct /C02a r c t a n2Δc
κ .
Recalling that we can assign a correlation time to this noise byτc =2 /κ,
one would expect to recover a Markovian Lindbladian description fort ≫ τc.
In this limit, the term linear int in Eq. (46) is the dominant one, which leads
to a time-homogeneous exponential decay of the Ramsey probabilities
p
TL
i ðmx jθÞ/C25 1 þð /C01Þmx e/C0ti =T2
/C0/C1
=2 with an associated decoherence time
T2 ¼ 2=Sð0Þ¼ð ð κ=2Þ2 þ Δ2
c Þ=2g2
/C22nκ.A si nt h eO Uc a s e ,f o rs h o r t e rt i m e s ,
the memory effects will start playing a bigger role in the qubit dynamics,
such that the Ramsey decay is no longera time-homogeneous exponential.
Moreover, in this particular case, these memory effects can give rise to a non-
Markovianity that can be understood as a backﬂow of information from the
environment into the system. According to Eq. ( 32)o r( 33), non-
Markovianity occurs when the d ecay rate takes negative values γ(t)<0 .
This can only happen if the second contribution in Eq. (45) dominates over
the ﬁrst one, which cannot happen if Δ
c = 0. Since this contribution is
suppressed by e−κt/2, we will need the frequency of the oscillationsΔc to be
sufﬁciently large in comparison toκ, such that one can get a non-vanishing
degree of non-Markovianity. In Fig. 7,w ed e p i c tt h em e a s u r eo fn o n -
Markovianity of Eq. (32) as a function of Δc and τc =2 /κ. We see that the
parameter regimeΔc ≳ 1.82κ (white dashed line) is whereγ(t)c a nb e c o m e
negative at some time during the evolution, leading to larger non-
Markovianity as bothΔ
c and τc are further increased.
Let us now discuss the statistical inference for the LℓQT of this non-
Markovian dephasing map, and compa re the frequentist and Bayesian
approaches to the statistical estimation.
a. Frequentist Ramsey estimators . As in the OU case, we need to
minimize Cpd
TLðθÞ in Eq. ( 34), where the likelihood function pTL
i ðmx jθÞ¼
1 þð /C01Þmx e/C0Γðti Þ/C0/C1
=2 now depends on the new attenuation factor in Eq.
(46). Since there are three noise parametersθ? ¼ð g2
/C22n?; κ?; Δc?Þ2 Θ ¼ R3
þ,
we shall at least need to measure at three different times. To assess the
performance of the frequentist approach under shot noise, we numerically
generate the relative frequencies~f 1ðmx jθ?Þ; ~f 2ðmx jθ?Þ; ~f 3ðmx jθ?Þ at these
Fig. 7 | Non-Markovianity measure for the quantum dephasing map. Non-
Markovianity measure of Eq. (32) for different values of τc =2 /κ and Δc. The dashed
line signals the limit between the Markovian and the non-Markovian regions and
corresponds to the equation Δ
c ≈ 1.82κ. The non-Markovian region is located in the
upper right corner.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 12

=== Page 13 ===
times by sampling the probability distribution with the real noise parameters
θ⋆ an u m b e ro ft i m e sNshot = N1 + N2 + N3.I no r d e rt oﬁnd the three
optimal times, we minimize the determinant of the covariance matrix in Eq.
(41), which will have an similar expression as Eq. (40), but now expressed in
t e r m so f3×3m a t r i c e sf o rt h eu n d e r l y ing trivariate normal distribution.
Since we are optimizing t
1, t2 and t3,o n em a yw o n d e ri fw ea l s oc o u l d
improve the estimation by redistributing the total number of measurements
differently at each of these times. However, according to our prescription in
which the imprecision is quanti ﬁed by the long-run Gaussian PDF,
which de ﬁnes an elliptical volume in this case, one gets
det Σ
^θðt1;opt; t2;opt; t3;optÞ/ 1=N1N2N3. Therefore, the number of mea-
surements must be equally distributed between the three different timesN1
= N2 = N3 = Nshot/3.
The minimization in Eq. (41)t h e ny i e l d st h eo p t i m a lt i m e s{t1,opt, t2,opt,
t3,opt}s h o w ni nF i g .8, which have been represented as a function ofτc⋆/T2⋆
for a ﬁxed value ofΔc⋆. The non-zero value of the later is responsible for the
fact that, for τc⋆ ≳ 0.73T2⋆, we cross the red-dashed line and enter a non-
Markovian regime in which the effective dephasing dynamics is no longer
CP-divisible. In this non-Markovian regime, the optimal times tend to be
close to the local maxima of ~f
iðmx jθ?Þ, providing a large amount of infor-
mation about the dephasing noise. Conversely, deep in the Markovian
regime τ
c⋆ ≪ T2⋆,i ts u fﬁces to measure at t3,opt ≈ 0.797T2⋆ in order to
determineT2⋆, in agreement with the analytical Lindblad result, whilet1,opt
and t2,opt tend to zero and would be used to determine the two other noise
parameters.
b. Bayesian Ramsey estimators .L e tu sn o wm o v et ot h eB a y e s i a n
approach, where we have some prior knowledge as shown in Eq. (16)o ft h e
parameters θ ¼ð g2
/C22n; κ; ΔcÞ that gets updated at each Bayesian step tℓ by
enlarging the data set with δD‘. Minimizing the relative entropy between
the prior and the posterior in Eq. (19), we obtain the subsequent evolution
time tℓ, and update our knowledge about the noise parameters in the best
possible way. As shown in Fig. 9, the Bayesian procedure starts by using
evolution update times that are scattered in a broad range of values. How-
ever, as the number of iterations increases and we gain more knowledge,
they tend to cluster around three well-deﬁned times. In fact, as shown by the
corresponding dashed lines, these ti mes coincide with the optimal mea-
surement times of the frequentist approach in Fig.8. Therefore, if we start a
Bayesian experiment with some prior, and we let the experiment run for
sufﬁciently long number of steps, we will learn the optimal times
automatically.
In order to compare the precision of the frequentist and Bayesian
approaches, we proceed in analogy to the OU noise by looking for a para-
meter that captures the relative precision of the two approaches in Eq. (42).
We now have to consider that the determinant of the trivariate Gaussian
covariance det Σ is a volume, and we can de ﬁne an average radius as
/C22R ¼ ﬃﬃ½p 3/C138det Σ=ð4π=3Þ. We can quantify the precision by taking the square
root of this radius, which scales like a s tandard deviation. Altogether, the
relative precision of the frequentist and Bayesian approaches is deﬁned by
the ratio
r
NM ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
det Cov ð^θF;optÞ
/C16/C17
det Σ‘max
6
vuu
t : ð47Þ
Here, ^θ
F;opt is the frequentist estimator taking measurements at the optimal
times, and we consider the same number of total measurements Nshot for
both approaches. This ratio is represented in Fig. 10 for Nshot =2×1 0 4,
which is still far from the asymptotic regime of largeNshot where one would
obtain rNM ≈ 1 in similarity to the results found for the OU noise in Fig.6.
Instead of exploring how this ratio changes with the number of measure-
ment shots, we are here interested in understanding how the degree of non-
Markovianity can affect the performance of the two estimation strategies.
We thus setNshot =2×1 0 4, since the variance is already good enough but the
cost in terms of number of measurements is still not too big, and plot the
precision ratio as a function of the real noise parameters. As we can see in
Fig. 10, the blue region represents a regime in which the frequentist
approach is slightly better than the Bayesian one, and coincides with the
regime of Markovian dephasing that isdelimited by the dashed white line.
The continuous white line marks the ratio contour line with r
NM =1 ,a n d
thus delimits the part of the blue region in which the frequentist approach
with optimal times is preferable. In the green and yellow areas, which
coincide with the non-Markovian regime, the Bayesian approach becomes
preferable and the advantage can actually be quite signi ﬁcant. As we go
Fig. 8 | Optimal times for quantum dephasing L ℓQT. We represent the three
optimal times ðt1;opt; t2;opt; t3;optÞ¼ argminfdetðΣ^θðt1; t2; t3ÞÞg as a function of the
ratio of the real noise parameters τc⋆/T2⋆, setting Δc⋆ =5 /T2⋆. The vertical red
dashed line separates the Markovian regime (left) from the non-Markovian one
(right). On the Markovian regime, as τc⋆ ≪ T2⋆, we see that the t1, t2 in blue and
orange tend to zero, while t3 in green tends to the optimal value of the pure Lind-
bladian case t3 ≈ 0.797T2⋆. On the other hand, as τc⋆ increases and memory effects
become more relevant, the three optimal times start to depart from each other. In the
non-Markovian regime, the optimal time t2,opt is closer to t3,opt than it is to t1,opt.
Moreover, this optimal t1,opt time starts to decrease as τc⋆ goes deep into the non-
Markovian regime.
Fig. 9 | Bayesian optimal measurement time at each step. We consider the non-
Markovian quantum dephasing with noise parameters τc,⋆ = T2⋆/2 and Δc⋆ =5 /T2⋆.
We consider as initial prior a continuous uniform distribution with
g
2
/C22n 2½ g2
/C22n?=3; 3g2
/C22n?/C138; κ 2½ 3κ?; κ?=3/C138; Δc 2½ 3Δc?; Δc?=3/C138. At each Bayesian step, we
increase the data set with jδD‘j¼ 50 new outcomes. As the Bayesian protocol
proceeds, we see that the Bayesian update times cluster in three groups of data, which
lie around the optimal times t1,opt, t2,opt, t3,opt of the frequentist approach, which are
represented by dashed lines.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 13

=== Page 14 ===
deeper in the non-Markovian regime, the oscillating term in Eq. ( 46)
becomes bigger and the decay of the coherence exhibits an increasing
number of local maxima. These local maxima represent times that provide a
signiﬁcant amount of information in terms of the Kullback-Leibler
divergence of Eq. ( 19). Therefore, the presence of more local maxima in
the non-Markovian regime makes it easier for the Bayesian method to, even
if the prior information is minimal, select a time as useful as the
asymptotically optimal times.
It is also useful to quantify the advantage of one estimator with respect
to the other in terms of number of measurements that is required to reach a
target precision, which amounts to reaching the same value of the above
covariance determinant. The values shown for the ratio of the determinants
in Fig. 10 can be converted into the ratio of number of measurements by
assuming that both covariance determinants in Eq. (47) scale as 1= ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃN
shot
p
even in the non-asymptotic regime. Although there can be corrections to
this scaling, this can give us in most cases an idea of the proportion of
measurement shots one can save by us ing the best estimator. With this
assumption, we get Nshot;F=Nshot;B /C25r2
NM,w i t h rNM the ratio of the
determinants of two different approaches. Thus, if for instancerNM =1 . 5 ,w e
obtain thatNshot,F/Nshot,B≈ 2.25. Therefore, we get more than a 2× reduction
in the number of measurements with the Bayesian approach in comparison
to the frequentist one to reach the same precision. Going back to the values
of Fig. 10, we see that the Bayesian approach can result in a considerable
improvement as one goes deep in the non-Markovian limit. Before closing
this subsection, it is worth recalling on ce more that, in practice, the fre-
quentist estimation will never be performed at the three optimal times, and
the advantage of the Bayesian approach can be even bigger. In Sec. II of the
Supplementary Material, we present a detailed comparison of these esti-
mators with another one in which the shots are evenly distributed between
the measurements after evolution times that cover uniformly the whole time
interval T. As discussed in Sec. II of the Supplementary Material, the
Bayesian approach is preferable for most of the parameter values, and can
again show a big advantage as one enters into the non-Markovian regime.
Discussion
We have presented L ℓQT, a new tool designed to characterize non-
Markovian dephasing noise in QIPs, building upon the established frame-
work of Lindblad quantum tomography. LℓQT extends the applicability of
Lindblad learning to scenarios whe re temporal correlations and non-
Markovian dynamics play a signiﬁcant role. In particular, it allows us to
extend the characterization of the generators of quantum dynamical maps
that go beyond the time-homogeneous Lindblad limit, which connect to a
time-local master equation that can display negative decay rates in certain
time intervals and, thus, strictly non-Markovian quantum evolutions.
Through a detailed comparative study, both frequentist and Bayesian
approaches to LℓQT are presented, offering insights into the accuracy and
precision of noise estimation under different conditions.
By focusing on the time-correlated dephasing quantum dynamical
map of a single qubit, we show that L ℓQT can be formally expressed as a
parameter estimation process, which simpliﬁes the most general learning
scheme to a single initial state and a single measurement basis. In particular,
the problem reduces to a time-correlated Ramsey estimator for a para-
metrized decay rate, which depends on the noise parameters via a ﬁltered
power spectral density of the noise. In the frequentist approach, the focus lies
on optimizing measurement times to reduce the number of necessary
measurements while minimizing error in parameter estimation. By lever-
aging statistical inference techniques, the frequentist approach provides
valuable insights into the efﬁciency and effectiveness of LℓQT, particularly in
scenarios with varying degrees of temporal correlations and non-
Markovianity. Conversely, the Bayesian approach offers a more dynamic
and adaptive framework, allowing forthe incorporation of prior knowledge
and iterative updates to reﬁne noise estimates over time.
We have compared the performance of both approaches for two dif-
ferent dephasing quantum dynamical maps, either for a semi-classical or for
a quantum-mechanical noise model. I n both cases, the microscopically-
motivated parametrization allows one to interpolate between a fully Mar-
kovian Lindblad limit, for which we derive analytical solutions for the
optimal estimation, and a time-correlated and even non-Markovian regime
which require a different distribution of the optimal and Bayesian mea-
suring times. Interestingly, in the quantum-mechanical dephasing model,
which can be obtained from a microscopic model of a qubit that is coupled
to a dissipative bosonic mode in both superconducting-circuit and trapped-
ion architectures, the best of the two approaches depends on whether we are
in the Markovian or the non-Markovian regime. The Bayesian approach
yields much better results in the non-Markovian regime, showing that it is
able to automatically adapt to the particularities of the non-Markovian
evolution to make much better estimations with a limited number of shots.
Moreover, we also compare to more standard schemes considered in the
context of Lindbladian quantum tomography, in which the measurements
are distributed uniformly (see Supplementary Material). In this case we
show an advantage of our schemes that again becomes more appreciable in
the non-Markovian regime for the Bayesian approach. However, we also
ﬁnd that for the frequentist approac h, the optimal distribution of mea-
surements does not always outperformthe uniform distribution when the
number of measurments is small and the asymptotic regime has not yet been
reached. These results may suggest that the observed patterns extend to
other similar cases, but further exploration would be required to
conﬁrm this.
The semi-classical dephasing model we have discussed has also been
considered in the context of central spin models, where the central spin/
qubit is dipolarly-coupled to an ensemble of environmental spins that play
the role of a mesoscopic bath. For the case of NV centers in diamond
130,t h e
bath corresponds to nearby substitutional nitrogen atoms, also known as P1
centers, which have a much smaller splitting than the qubit. Due to the
mismatch, energy exchange processes can be neglected, and only long-
itudinal ones survive leading to a time-correlated dephasing. For these
systems, assuming incoherent dynamics of different bath spins and negli-
gible back action is a good approximation, such that the above semi-classical
model with an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process turns out to be a reasonably-
Fig. 10 | Ratio between determinants of covariance matrices of frequentist and
Bayesian approaches. The ratio of Eq. (47) computed for different parameter values
τc⋆ and Δc⋆, and a ﬁxed number of total measurements Nshot =2 ⋅104. The dashed
white line separates the Markovian from the non-Markovian regime, with the non-
Markovian region located in the upper right corner. The continuous white line
indicates the level where the ratio equals 1. 5000 frequentist runs were done to
estimate det Covð^θ
F;optÞ, while 30 Bayesian runs were done to estimate det Σ‘max
for
each point (τc⋆, Δc⋆). In the Bayesian approach 100 shots were taken at each step and
the prior is a continuous uniform distribution withθ∈ [θ⋆/3, 3θ⋆]. Analogously, for
the least-squares minimization used in the frequentist approach (trust-region
reﬂective algorithm), we set the same parameter bounds as the ones of the uniform
distribution.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 14

=== Page 15 ===
good approximation. More generally, if the bath consists of weakly-
interacting nuclear spins that get dipolarly-coupled to the qubit, bath cor-
relations might be relevant. Although this is not generally valid, when the
leading bath correlations can be reduced to pairs of spins, a similar Gaussian
semi-classical model can still be used
131, albeit considering other PSDs. In
more general situations, one should c onsider larger groups of spins, and
explore other spin-bath dephasing models. Although this goes beyond the
scope of this work, we believe that incorporating a detailed microscopically-
motivated parametrization of this type of non-Markovian dephasing should
allow for a more ef ﬁcient parametrization of the noise that could be
incorporated in a L ℓQT that is similar in spirit to the one considered in
this work.
Future research shall explore the e xtension of these non-Markovian
characterization techniques to larger quantum systems, combining the
effect of spatial and temporal correlations. More importantly, our work sets
the stage to generalize to more complex situations beyond pure dephasing,
specially focusing on scalability and robustness, and eventually targeting the
noise in full universal gate sets of QIPs.
Methods
Time-local master equation for pure dephasing
For the sake of completeness, we present here a derivation of the time-local
master equation in Eq. (20) for a qubit subjected to time-correlated dephasing
noise, both in a semi-classical and a fully quantum-mechanical model. This
serves to introduce well-known concepts and set our notation following
77.
a. Semi-classical time-correlated dephasing.-The qubit evolves under a
stochastic rotating-frame Hamiltonian
~HðtÞ¼ 1
2 δ~ω ðtÞσz ; ð48Þ
where δ~ω ðtÞ is the detuning of the qubit with respect to the frequency of a
driving used in the initialization/measurement stages with respect to, and we
have setℏ = 1. We use a tilde to highlight the random nature ofδ~ω ðtÞ,w h i c h
is modeled as a stochastic process with zero mean E½δ~ω ðtÞ/C138 ¼0, thus
assuming that the driving frequency is resonant with the qubit transition on
average. We recall that the averages are taken with respect to the underlying
joint PDF of the process for any ﬁnite set of times
p
δ~ω ðδωÞ¼ pt1 ;t2 ;/C1/C1/C1;tn
ðδω1; δω2; /C1/C1/C1; δωnÞ, 8n 2 Zþ : δωn ¼ δωðtnÞ
2 R; ftign
i¼1 2 T,w h i c hf u l ﬁlls the conditions pδ~ω ðδωÞ ≥ 0a n dRQ
ndδωnpδ~ω ðδωÞ¼ 1121,132. Physically, these stochastic ﬂuctuations can
either stem from frequency/phase noise of the drive, or from additional
external ﬁelds that shift the energy of the qubit. For each individual tra-
jectory of the noise δ~ω ðtÞ,t h ee v o l u t i o no fa ni n i t i a lq u b i ts t a t eρ0 ¼
∣ψ 0
/C11
ψ 0
/C10
∣in the rotating frame is purely unitary but random, giving rise to
~ρðtÞ, and expectation values will thus depend on stochastic averages E,
leading to a completely-positive trace-preserving (CPTP) map after
averagingρðtÞ¼ E½~ρðtÞ/C138 ¼E
t;t0
ðρ0Þ1,64,133,134. The corresponding stochastic
differential equations are
d~ρ
dt ¼ ~Lt ð~ρðtÞÞ; ~Lt ð/C15Þ ¼ /C0i½ ~HðtÞ; /C15/C138; ð49Þ
where one sees that the noise δ~ω ðtÞ thus enters multiplicatively. Using the
Nakajima-Zwanzig74 projection operatorsP ¼ E,a n dQ ¼ 1 /C0P,w ec a n
ﬁnd differential equations for the averaged density matrix using
ρðtÞ¼ Pð~ρðtÞÞ : Qðρ0Þ¼ 0 ¼ Pð ~Lt Þ: ð50Þ
In fact, this averaged evolution can be written as a time-local master
equation99,135,136,n a m e l y
dρ
dt ¼ KðtÞρðtÞ; ð51Þ
where KðtÞ is the so-called time-convolutionless kernel that encapsulates
the effects that the ﬁnite memory of the time-correlated noise has on the
qubit. In particular, this kernel can be expressed as follows
KðtÞ¼ P ~Lt ð1 /C0~ΣðtÞÞ
/C01
; ð52Þ
where we have used a super-operator playing the role of a ‘self-energy’,
which can be expanded as
~ΣðtÞ¼
X
m
αm ~ΣmðtÞ; KðtÞ¼
X
n
P ~Lt
X
m
αm ~ΣmðtÞ
 ! n
: ð53Þ
In this way, the kernel is organised in a power series of a microscopic
couplingα that characterizes the order of magnitude of the coupling of the
system to the external noise, and Eq. (50) can be used to show that only even
terms contribute
KðtÞ¼
X
n
K2nðtÞ: ð54Þ
This series agrees with the Kubo and Van Kampen cumulant
expansion137,138,a n do n eﬁnds that the n-th order term can be expressed in
terms of n − 1 nested time-ordered integrals 74, being the lowest-order
contribution K2ðtÞ¼
R t
0 dt0Pð ~Lt ~Lt0 Þ.T h i st e r mi sc o n t r o l l e db yt h e
auto-correlation of the stochastic process, leading to
dρ
dt ¼ 1
4
Z t
0
dt0 Cðt; t0Þþ Cðt0; tÞðÞ σz ρðtÞσz /C0ρðtÞ
/C0/C1
; ð55Þ
which, for wide-sense stationary processes, can be expressed in terms of the
PSD of the stochastic process
Cðt /C0t0Þ¼ E½δ~ω ðtÞδ~ω ðt0Þ/C138 ¼
Z 1
/C01
dω
2π Sðω Þ eiω ðt/C0t0 Þ: ð56Þ
We note that for any wide-sense stationary classical noise, the PSD is even
S(ω )= S(− ω)123,a n d Cðt; t0Þ¼ Cðjt /C0t0jÞ ¼ Cðt0; tÞ such that the
symmetrized autocorrelation function and the symmetrized PSD intro-
duced below Eq. (24) already contain all of the required information for a
second-order approximation. The truncation at this order is justiﬁed byﬁrst
noting that the autocorrelationis typically concentrated withinjt /C0t
0j ≤ τc,
whereτc is a characteristic correlation time. Due to the cluster property135,139,
one ﬁnds that K2ðtÞ/C24αζ with α ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
Cð0Þ
p
and a small parameter
ζ ¼ ατc ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃτc
T2
r
; ð57Þ
w h e r ew eh a v ed eﬁned a characteristic time as T2 =2 / S(0). The cluster
property for the highern-th order contributions, which have (n − 1) nested
integrals, states that the corresponding kernels scale withKnðtÞ/C24αζn/C01,
justifying a low-order truncation whenever the conditionζ≪ 1 is met. This
i sk n o w na saf a s t -ﬂuctuation expansion and, back from the rotating frame,
yields the time-local master equation in Eq. (20).
L e tu sn o t et h a tt h ea b o v et r u n c a t i o nr e s t so nt h ei m p o r t a n c eo ft h e
memory effects τcwithin the T2 t i m e .A sd i s c u s s e di nm o r ed e t a i li nt h e
“Results”,t h i sT2 time controls the time scale for the decay of coherences
hσx ðtÞi /C25e/C0t=T2 in a long-time Lindbladian limit t ≫ τc. However, for
shorter times, the structure of the noise can actually lead to deviations from
this limit, leading to a coherence decay that is not exponential. As empha-
sized in the main text, this is not an univocal signal of non-Markovianity for
the qubit evolution. We note th at there is an exception to the τc ≪ T2
requirement for Gaussian random processes, which are deﬁned by a joint
PDF that is a multivariate normal distribution for any set of times. In this
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 15

=== Page 16 ===
case, the time-local master equation in Eq. (20) is actually an exact result,
independently of the value ofζ. In fact, the higher-order contributions to the
kernel74 vanish identicallyKnðtÞ¼ 0; 8n > 2, due to Isserlis’ theorem, most
commonly referred to as Wick ’s theorem in the context of physics
E½δ~ω ðt1Þδ~ω ðt2Þ/C1/C1/C1δ~ω ðtnÞ/C138 ¼P
σ2Sn
E½δ~ω ðtσð1ÞÞδ~ω ðtσð2ÞÞ /C138/C1/C1/C1E½δ~ω ðtσðn/C01ÞÞ
δ~ω ðtσðnÞÞ/C138,w h e r eSn is the group of all possible permutations ofn elements,
e.g. σ(1, 2, ⋯ , n − 1, n)=( n,1 ,2 , ⋯ , n − 1).
b. Quantum-mechanical time-correlated dephasing.- We consider a
single qubit coupled to an environment, and evolving dρSB=dt ¼ Lt ðρSBÞ
under the following Liouvillian
Lt ¼ LSB þ LB; LSBð/C15Þ ¼ /C0i
2 ω 0 þ BðtÞ
/C0/C1
σz ; /C15
/C2/C3
; ð58Þ
where B(t) is an environment/bath operator that introducesﬂuctuations on
the qubit frequency, andLBð/C15Þis the Liouvillian of the bath. In the standard
description of quantum master equa tions, the environment is macro-
scopically large and subject t o a purely-unitary evolution
LBð/C15Þ ¼ /C0i½HB; /C15/C138. When the system-environment coupling is weak,
one can assume that the environment remains unaltered, such that the
e v o l u t i o nt a k e sp l a c eo nt h eq u b i tb u tt h e r ei sn ob a c ka c t i o nρ
SB = ρ(t) ⊗ ρB.
A Born-Markov approximation then yields a non-unitary master equation
for the qubit
129. This can be expressed as a time convolutionless master
equation as the one discussed in the previous subsection in Eq. ( 51), also
truncated at second order, whereP is now a super-operator tracing over the
bath degrees of freedom PðρSBÞ¼ TrBðρSBÞ¼ ρ74. The non-unitary
evolution of the qubit results from the large number of degrees of freedom
in the environment, such that the purity of the state can only decrease with
no recurrences.
Let us note, however, that the conditions under which these
assumptions are made can be more general, and the degrees of freedom
playing the role of an environment need not be macroscopically large.
The crucial requirement is that the time with which the effective envir-
onment reaches its steady state L
Bðρss
B Þ¼ 0 must be much shorter than
the timescale of interest in which the system evolves ρ(t). In the present
context, this is the case of a single bosonic mode that exchanges energy
with a larger electromagnetic bath with a certain rate κ. The bath Liou-
villian reads
L
Bð/C15Þ ¼ /C0i½ HBðtÞ; /C15/C138þκ aρay /C01
2 faya; /C15g
/C18/C19
; ð59Þ
where HB(t) is the bosonic mode Hamiltonian, which can include
external drivings, and a†, a are the bosonic creation and annihilation
operators, respectively. The condition for this single driven-dissipative
mode to act as an environment is that κ must be much larger than the
coupling strength inside B(t). In the context of the superconducting
circuits discussed in the main text, κ is the rate of photon loss in a
resonator, and HB must contain a linear resonant microwave driving of
the resonator that controls the non-zero number of photons in the steady
state
124. For trapped ions, κ will be the rate of sympathetic cooling of a
vibrational model in a two-ion crystal, which will also be supplemented
with a smaller heating rate
126. The difference of these two rates controls
the population of phonons in the steady state, and can be controlled by an
external laser.
We now move to the interaction picture with respect to the bare system
Liouvillian ρ
I ðtÞ¼ etLS ðρðtÞÞ with LSð/C15Þ ¼ /C0i½1
2 ω 0σz ; /C15/C138,a n dt h eb a r e
bath Liouvillian, i.e.,BI ðtÞ¼ etLB ðBðtÞÞ. The key step is that, due to the fast
decay of the bath, for the timescales of interestt ≫ 1/κ, one can assume that
ρSBðtÞ¼ ρðtÞ/C10ρss
B , the second-order time-convolutionless master equa-
tion can be expressed as in Eq. (55)w i t h
Cðt; t0Þ¼ E½BI ðtÞBI ðt0Þ/C138 ¼TrBfBI ðtÞBI ðt0Þρss
B g: ð60Þ
H e r e ,w eh a v ea s s u m e dt h a tPðBI ðtÞÞ ¼ 0 ,a n dw en o t et h a tB(t) need not
commute with itself at different times. Once more, if these quantum-
mechanical auto-correlation functions are wide-sense stationary,
Cðt; t
0Þ¼ Cðt /C0t0Þ. We note that, in contrast to the semi-classical case
where S(ω)= S(− ω), this is not necessarily the case in the quantum-
mechanical caseS(ω) ≠ S(− ω)123. However, in the case of pure dephasing, the
t i m ee v o l u t i o ni nE q .(55) only depends on the symmetrized auto-correlation
function /C22Cðt; t0Þ¼ 1
2 ðCðt; t0Þþ Cðt0; tÞÞ and therefore only the symmetric
part of the auto-correlation function inﬂu e n c e st h et i m ee v o l u t i o n
dρ
dt ¼ 1
2
Z t
0
dt0 /C22Cðt; t0Þ σz ρðtÞσz /C0ρðtÞ
/C0/C1
: ð61Þ
Moving back to the Schrödinger picture, we obtain the master equation in
Eq. (20), which will only depend on the symmetrized noise PSD de ﬁned
below Eq. (24).
Error analysis and asymptotic statistics
We show here the asymptotic normality of the maximum-likelihood esti-
m a t o ri nE q .(9)w h e nNshot tends to inﬁnity and how this is related to the
Fisher information in Eq. (13). The asymptotic covariance matrix is used in
the main text to obtain the optimal times of the frequentist estimator and
c a nb eu s e dt oo b t a i na p p r o x i m a t ec o nﬁdence intervals of estimations. To
simplify the notation and reduce complexity, we consider the pure
dephasing case here, where the cost function is simpli ﬁed. However, the
conclusions remain the same, and the general case can be recovered by
substitutingi → i, s, b and mx → mb. In this case, instead of considering only
measurement points in time, we account for measurement conﬁgurations,
including evolution times, initial states, measurement bases, and measure-
ment outcomes.
Our estimation ^θ
F is affected by the limited number of measurement
shots Ni at each point in time ti, which will cause ~f i to behave as a normal
random variable and will produce a random error in theﬁnal estimation of
the parameters. The maximum-likelihood cost function reads
Cpd
TLðθÞ¼/C0
X
i;mx
Ni ~f i;mx
log piðmx jθÞ; ð62Þ
where ~f i;mx
denotes~f iðmx jθ?Þ and pi(mx∣θ)d e n o t e spTL
i ðmx jθÞ.T h em i n i -
mum of the cost function satisﬁes
∂θCpd
TL ¼/C0
X
i;mx
Ni ~f i;mx
∂θpiðmx jθÞ
piðmx jθÞ ¼ 0: ð63Þ
Since ~f i;mx
¼ piðmx jθ?Þþ Δ~f i;mx
,w i t hΔ~f i;mx
small, the minimum of the
cost function is slightly displaced from the true minimum θ⋆ to θ⋆ + Δθ.
Taylor expanding Eq. (63)a r o u n dθ⋆ to ﬁrst order we have
∂θj
Cpd
TL /C25/C0P
i;mx
Ni piðmx jθÞþ Δ~f i;mx
hi ∂θj pi ðmx jθÞ
pi ðmx jθÞ
/C12/C12/C12
θ¼θ?
/C20
þP
k
∂θk
∂θj pi ðmx jθÞ
pi ðmx jθÞ
/C12/C12
/C12
θ¼θ?
Δθk
/C21
¼ 0:
ð64Þ
Keeping onlyﬁrst-order terms inΔθ and Δ~f i;mx
and simplifying we obtain
X
i;j
ΔθjNi½Iiðθ?Þ/C138jk ¼
X
i;mx
NiΔ~f i;mx
∂θk
piðmx jθÞ
piðmx jθÞ
/C12/C12/C12/C12
θ¼θ?
; ð65Þ
w h e r ew eh a v ed eﬁned the matrix
½Iiðθ?Þ/C138jk ¼
P
mx
piðmxjθ?Þ∂θj
log piðmx jθÞ∂θk
log piðmx jθÞjθ¼θ?
: ð66Þ
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 16

=== Page 17 ===
Note that this is the Fisher i nformation given in Eq. ( 12). Taking into
account that Δ~f i;1 ¼/C0Δ~f i;0 and ~f i;1 ¼ 1 /C0~f i;0,a n dd eﬁning the matrices
Jjk ¼
X
i
Ni½Iiðθ?Þ/C138jk; Fji ¼ Ni
∂θj
pið0jθÞ∣
θ¼θ?
pið0jθ?Þð1 /C0pið0jθ?ÞÞ ; ð67Þ
we arrive at the expression
Δθk ¼
X
i;j
J/C01
jk FjiΔ~f i;0; ð68Þ
which relates differences between the expected and measured values
Δ~f i;mx
¼ ~f i;mx
/C0piðmx jθ?Þ to differences between the estimated and the
true parametersΔθk.W h e nNi is sufﬁciently large,~f i;0 b e h a v e sa st h en o r m a l
distributionN μ ¼ pið0jθ?Þ; σ2
f ¼ pið0jθ?Þpið1jθ?Þ=Ni
hi
.T h u s ,w eh a v e
Δ~f i;0 /C24N μ ¼ 0; σ2
f i
¼ pið0jθ?Þpið1jθ?Þ=Ni
hi
: ð69Þ
After the linear transformation of Eq. (68), we obtain that Δθ behaves as
Δθ /C24N μ ¼ 0; Σ^θ ¼ J/C01/C2/C3
; ð70Þ
w h e r ew eh a v eu s e dt h a tJ/C01Fdiagðσ2
f ÞFT ðJ/C01ÞT ¼ J/C01. Thus, the shot noise
produces a normal random error with covariance matrix Σθ = J−1 which
scales as 1/Nshot,w i t hNshot = ∑iNi, which is the result presented in Eq. (13).
Data availability
The following GitHub repository co ntains the code to reproduce our
ﬁndings: https://github.com/varona/llqt.
Code availability
The code used to conduct the analyses and generate the results presented in
this work is openly accessible athttps://github.com/varona/llqt.
Received: 29 May 2024; Accepted: 11 May 2025;
References
1. Nielsen, M. A. & Chuang, I. L. Quantum Computation and Quantum
Information: 10th Anniversary Edition (Cambridge University Press,
2010).
2. Bruzewicz, C. D., Chiaverini, J., McConnell, R. & Sage, J. M.
Trapped-ion quantum computing: Progress and challenges. Appl.
Phys. Rev. 6, 021314 (2019).
3. Morgado, M. & Whitlock, S. Quantum simulation and computing with
Rydberg-interacting qubits. AVS Quantum Sci. 3, 023501 (2021).
4. Wendin, G. Quantum information processing with superconducting
circuits: a review. Rep. Prog. Phys. 80, 106001 (2017).
5. Arute, F. et al. Quantum supremacy using a programmable
superconducting processor. Nature 574, 505–510 (2019).
6. Zhong, H.-S. et al. Quantum computational advantage using
photons. Science 370, 1460–1463 (2020).
7. Pino, J. M. et al. Demonstration of the trapped-ion quantum CCD
computer architecture. Nature 592, 209–213 (2021).
8. Egan, L. et al. Fault-tolerant control of an error-corrected qubit.
Nature 598, 281–286 (2021).
9. Postler, L. et al. Demonstration of fault-tolerant universal quantum
gate operations. Nature 605, 675–680 (2022).
10. Krinner, S. et al. Realizing repeated quantum error correction in a
distance-three surface code. Nature 605, 669–674 (2022).
11. Zhao, Y. et al. Realization of an error-correcting surface code with
superconducting qubits. Phys. Rev. Lett. 129, 030501 (2022).
12. Acharya, R. et al. Suppressing quantum errors by scaling a surface
code logical qubit. Nature 614, 676–681 (2023).
13. Kim, Y. et al. Evidence for the utility of quantum computing before
fault tolerance. Nature 618, 500–505 (2023).
14. Bluvstein, D. et al. Logical quantum processor based on
reconﬁgurable atom arrays. Nature 626,5 8–65 (2024).
15. Gupta, R. S. et al. Encoding a magic state with beyond break-even
ﬁdelity. Nature 625, 259–263 (2024).
16. Wang, Y. et al. Fault-tolerant one-bit addition with the smallest
interesting colour code 2309.09893 (2023).
17. Yamamoto, K., Duf ﬁeld, S., Kikuchi, Y. & Muñoz Ramo, D.
Demonstrating Bayesian quantum phase estimation with quantum
error detection. Physical Review Research 6 https://doi.org/10.
1103/PhysRevResearch.6.013221 (2024).
18. Ryan-Anderson, C. et al. Implementing fault-tolerant entangling
gates on the ﬁve-qubit code and the color code https://arxiv.org/
abs/2208.01863 (2022).
19. Dalzell, A. M. et al. Quantum algorithms: A survey of applications and
end-to-end complexities 2310.03011 (2023).
20. Viola, L., Knill, E. & Lloyd, S. Dynamical decoupling of open quantum
systems. Phys. Rev. Lett. 82, 2417–2421 (1999).
21. Khodjasteh, K. & Lidar, D. A. Fault-tolerant quantum dynamical
decoupling. Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 180501 (2005).
22. Khodjasteh, K. & Viola, L. Dynamically error-corrected gates for
universal quantum computation. Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 080501
(2009).
23. Lidar, D. A. Review of Decoherence-Free Subspaces, Noiseless
Subsystems, and Dynamical Decoupling , 295–354 (John Wiley &
Sons, Ltd, 2014). https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118742631.ch11.
24. Temme, K., Bravyi, S. & Gambetta, J. M. Error mitigation for short-
depth quantum circuits. Phys. Rev. Lett. 119, 180509 (2017).
25. Nation, P. D., Kang, H., Sundaresan, N. & Gambetta, J. M. Scalable
mitigation of measurement errors on quantum computers. PRX
Quantum 2, 040326 (2021).
26. van den Berg, E., Minev, Z. K., Kandala, A. & Temme, K. Probabilistic
error cancellation with sparse Pauli –Lindblad models on noisy
quantum processors. Nat. Phys. 19, 1116–1121 (2023).
27. Cai, Z. et al. Quantum error mitigation. Rev. Mod. Phys. 95, 045005
(2023).
28. Calderbank, A. R. & Shor, P. W. Good quantum error-correcting
codes exist. Phys. Rev. A 54, 1098–1105 (1996).
29. Steane, A. M. Error correcting codes in quantum theory. Phys. Rev.
Lett. 77, 793–797 (1996).
30. Terhal, B. M. Quantum error correction for quantum memories. Rev.
Mod. Phys. 87, 307–346 (2015).
31. Eisert, J. et al. Quantum certi ﬁcation and benchmarking. Nat. Rev.
Phys. 2, 382–390 (2020).
32. Kliesch, M. & Roth, I. Theory of quantum system certi
ﬁcation. PRX
Quantum 2, 010201 (2021).
33. Gebhart, V. et al. Learning quantum systems. Nat. Rev. Phys. 5,
141–156 (2023).
34. Zanardi, P. & Rasetti, M. Noiseless quantum codes. Phys. Rev. Lett.
79, 3306–3309 (1997).
35. Lidar, D. A., Chuang, I. L. & Whaley, K. B. Decoherence-free
subspaces for quantum computation. Phys. Rev. Lett. 81,
2594–2597 (1998).
36. Knill, E., La ﬂamme, R. & Viola, L. Theory of quantum error correction
for general noise. Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 2525–2528 (2000).
37. Kempe, J., Bacon, D., Lidar, D. A. & Whaley, K. B. Theory of
decoherence-free fault-tolerant universal quantum computation.
Phys. Rev. A 63, 042307 (2001).
38. Lidar, D. A. & Birgitta Whaley, K. Decoherence-Free Subspaces and
Subsystems, 83-120 (Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2003). https://doi.
org/10.1007/3-540-44874-8_5.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 17

=== Page 18 ===
39. Viola, L. & Lloyd, S. Dynamical suppression of decoherence in two-
state quantum systems. Phys. Rev. A 58, 2733–2744 (1998).
40. Kofman, A. G. & Kurizki, G. Uni ﬁed theory of dynamically suppressed
qubit decoherence in thermal baths. Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 130406
(2004).
41. Gordon, G., Erez, N. & Kurizki, G. Universal dynamical decoherence
control of noisy single- and multi-qubit systems.J. Phys. B: At., Mol.
Optical Phys. 40, S75 (2007).
42. Uhrig, G. S. Keeping a quantum bit alive by optimized π-pulse
sequences. Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 100504 (2007).
43. Cywi ński, L., Lutchyn, R. M., Nave, C. P. & Das Sarma, S. How to
enhance dephasing time in superconducting qubits. Phys. Rev. B
77, 174509 (2008).
44. Biercuk, M. J., Doherty, A. C. & Uys, H. Dynamical decoupling
sequence construction as a ﬁlter-design problem. J. Phys. B: At.,
Mol. Optical Phys. 44, 154002 (2011).
45. Clemens, J. P., Siddiqui, S. & Gea-Banacloche, J. Quantum error
correction against correlated noise. Phys. Rev. A 69, 062313 (2004).
46. Klesse, R. & Frank, S. Quantum error correction in spatially
correlated quantum noise. Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 230503 (2005).
47. Aharonov, D., Kitaev, A. & Preskill, J. Fault-tolerant quantum
computation with long-range correlated noise. Phys. Rev. Lett. 96,
050504 (2006).
48. Terhal, B. M. & Burkard, G. Fault-tolerant quantum computation for
local non-Markovian noise. Phys. Rev. A 71, 012336 (2005).
49. Aliferis, P., Gottesman, D. & Preskill, J. Quantum accuracy threshold
for concatenated distance-3 codes. Quantum Info Comput. 6,
97–165 (2006).
50. Ng, H. K. & Preskill, J. Fault-tolerant quantum computation versus
Gaussian noise. Phys. Rev. A 79, 032318 (2009).
51. Ángel, R., Huelga, S. F. & Plenio, M. B. Quantum non-Markovianity:
characterization, quantiﬁcation and detection. Rep. Prog. Phys. 77,
094001 (2014).
52. Breuer, H.-P., Laine, E.-M., Piilo, J. & Vacchini, B. Colloquium: Non-
Markovian dynamics in open quantum systems.Rev. Mod. Phys.88,
021002 (2016).
53. Li, L., Hall, M. J. & Wiseman, H. M. Concepts of quantum non-
Markovianity: A hierarchy. Phys. Rep. 759,1 –51 (2018).
54. Addis, C., Ciccarello, F., Cascio, M., Palma, G. M. & Maniscalco, S.
Dynamical decoupling efﬁciency versus quantum non-Markovianity.
N. J. Phys. 17, 123004 (2015).
55. Berk, G. D., Milz, S., Pollock, F. A. & Modi, K. Extracting quantum
dynamical resources: consumption of non-Markovianity for noise
reduction. npj Quantum Inf. 9, 104 (2023).
56. Hakoshima, H., Matsuzaki, Y. & Endo, S. Relationship between
costs for quantum error mitigation and non-Markovian measures.
Phys. Rev. A 103, 012611 (2021).
57. Donvil, B. I. C., Lechler, R., Ankerhold, J. & Muratore-Ginanneschi, P.
Quantum trajectory approach to error mitigation 2305.19874 (2023).
58. Chuang, I. L. & Nielsen, M. A. Prescription for experimental
determination of the dynamics of a quantum black box.J. Mod. Opt.
44, 2455–2467 (1997).
59. Poyatos, J. F., Cirac, J. I. & Zoller, P. Complete characterization of a
quantum process: The two-bit quantum gate. Phys. Rev. Lett. 78,
390–393 (1997).
60. Fiurá šek, J. & Hradil, Zcv Maximum-likelihood estimation of
quantum processes. Phys. Rev. A 63, 020101 (2001).
61. Sacchi, M. F. Maximum-likelihood reconstruction of completely
positive maps. Phys. Rev. A 63, 054104 (2001).
62. Je žek, M., Fiurášek, J. & Hradil, Zcv Quantum inference of states and
processes. Phys. Rev. A 68, 012305 (2003).
63. Nielsen, M. A. & Chuang, I. L. Quantum Computation and Quantum
Information (Cambridge University Press, 2000).
64. Watrous, J. The Theory of Quantum Information (Cambridge
University Press, 2018).
65. Childs, A. M., Chuang, I. L. & Leung, D. W. Realization of quantum
process tomography in NMR. Phys. Rev. A 64, 012314 (2001).
66. Weinstein, Y. S. et al. Quantum process tomography of the quantum
Fourier transform. J. Chem. Phys. 121, 6117–6133 (2004).
67. Mitchell, M. W., Ellenor, C. W., Schneider, S. & Steinberg, A. M.
Diagnosis, prescription, and prognosis of a Bell-state ﬁlter by
quantum process tomography. Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 120402 (2003).
68. O ’Brien, J. L. et al. Quantum process tomography of a controlled-not
gate. Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 080502 (2004).
69. Riebe, M. et al. Process tomography of ion trap quantum gates.
Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 220407 (2006).
70. Home, J. P. et al. Complete methods set for scalable ion trap
quantum information processing. Science 325, 1227–1230 (2009).
71. Monz, T. et al. Realization of the quantum Toffoli gate with trapped
ions. Phys. Rev. Lett. 102
, 040501 (2009).
72. Bialczak, R. C. et al. Quantum process tomography of a universal
entangling gate implemented with Josephson phase qubits. Nat.
Phys. 6, 409–413 (2010).
73. Poletto, S. et al. Entanglement of two superconducting qubits in a
waveguide cavity via monochromatic two-photon excitation. Phys.
Rev. Lett. 109, 240505 (2012).
74. Breuer, H. P. & Petruccione, F. The theory of open quantum systems
(Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, 2002).
75. de Vega, I. & Alonso, D. Dynamics of non-Markovian open quantum
systems. Rev. Mod. Phys. 89, 015001 (2017).
76. Chru ściński, D. Dynamical maps beyond Markovian regime
2209.14902 (2022).
77. Velázquez, J. M. S. et al. Dynamical quantum maps for single-qubit
gates under non-Markovian phase noise 2402.14530 (2024).
78. Lindblad, G. On the generators of quantum dynamical semigroups.
Commun. Math. Phys. 48, 119–130 (1976).
79. Gorini, V., Kossakowski, A. & Sudarshan, E. C. G. Completely
positive dynamical semigroups of n level systems.J. Math. Phys. 17,
821–825 (1976).
80. Wolf, M. M., Eisert, J., Cubitt, T. S. & Cirac, J. I. Assessing non-
Markovian quantum dynamics. Physical Review Letters 101 https://
doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.101.150402 (2008).
81. Boulant, N., Havel, T. F., Pravia, M. A. & Cory, D. G. Robust method
for estimating the Lindblad operators of a dissipative quantum
process from measurements of the density operator at multiple time
points. Phys. Rev. A 67, 042322 (2003).
82. Howard, M. et al. Quantum process tomography and Linblad
estimation of a solid-state qubit. N. J. Phys. 8, 33 (2006).
83. Onorati, E., Kohler, T. & Cubitt, T. Fitting quantum noise models to
tomography data 2103.17243 (2021).
84. Bairey, E., Guo, C., Poletti, D., Lindner, N. H. & Arad, I. Learning the
dynamics of open quantum systems from their steady states. N. J.
Phys. 22, 032001 (2020).
85. Pastori, L., Olsacher, T., Kokail, C. & Zoller, P. Characterization and
veriﬁcation of Trotterized digital quantum simulation via Hamiltonian
and Liouvillian learning. PRX Quantum 3, 030324 (2022).
86. França, D. S., Markovich, L. A., Dobrovitski, V. V., Werner, A. H. &
Borregaard, J. Efﬁcient and robust estimation of many-qubit
Hamiltonians 2205.09567 (2022).
87. Samach, G. O. et al. Lindblad tomography of a superconducting
quantum processor. Phys. Rev. Appl. 18, 064056 (2022).
88. Zhang, H., Pokharel, B., Levenson-Falk, E. & Lidar, D. Predicting
non-Markovian superconducting-qubit dynamics from tomographic
reconstruction. Phys. Rev. Appl. 17, 054018 (2022).
89. Ben Av, E., Shapira, Y., Akerman, N. & Ozeri, R. Direct reconstruction
of the quantum-master-equation dynamics of a trapped-ion qubit.
Phys. Rev. A 101, 062305 (2020).
90. Dobrynin, D., Cardarelli, L., Müller, M. & Bermudez, A. Compressed-
sensing Lindbladian quantum tomography with trapped ions
2403.07462 (2024).
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 18

=== Page 19 ===
91. Álvarez, G. A. & Suter, D. Measuring the Spectrum of Colored Noise
by Dynamical Decoupling. Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 230501 (2011).
92. Yuge, T., Sasaki, S. & Hirayama, Y. Measurement of the Noise
Spectrum Using a Multiple-Pulse Sequence. Phys. Rev. Lett. 107,
170504 (2011).
93. Chalermpusitarak, T. et al. Frame-based ﬁlter-function formalism for
quantum characterization and control. PRX Quantum 2, 030315
(2021).
94. Pollock, F. A., Rodríguez-Rosario, C., Frauenheim, T., Paternostro, M. &
Modi, K. Non-markovian quantum processes: Complete framework
and efﬁcient characterization.P h y s .R e v .A97, 012127 (2018).
95. White, G., Pollock, F., Hollenberg, L., Modi, K. & Hill, C. Non-
markovian quantum process tomography. PRX Quantum 3, 020344
(2022).
96. White, G. A. L., Jurcevic, P., Hill, C. D. & Modi, K. Unifying non-
Markovian characterisation with an ef ﬁcient and self-consistent
framework 2312.08454 (2023).
97. Wei, K. X., Pritchett, E., Zajac, D. M., McKay, D. C. & Merkel, S.
Characterizing non-markovian off-resonant errors in quantum
gates. Phys. Rev. Appl. 21, 024018 (2024).
98. Gullans, M., Caranti, M., Mills, A. & Petta, J. Compressed gate
characterization for quantum devices with time-correlated noise.
PRX Quantum 5, 010306 (2024).
99. Chaturvedi, S. & Shibata, F. Time-convolutionless projection operator
formalism for elimination of fast variables. Applications to Brownian
motion. Z. f.ür. Phys. B Condens. Matter35,2 9 7–308 (1979).
100. Nakajima, S. On Quantum Theory of Transport Phenomena: Steady
Diffusion. Prog. Theor. Phys. 20, 948–959 (1958).
101. Zwanzig, R. Ensemble Method in the Theory of Irreversibility. J.
Chem. Phys. 33, 1338–1341 (2004).
102. Hall, M. J. W., Cresser, J. D., Li, L. & Andersson, E. Canonical form of
master equations and characterization of non-Markovianity. Phys.
Rev. A 89, 042120 (2014).
103. Bu žek, V. Reconstruction of Liouvillian superoperators.Phys. Rev. A
58, 1723–1727 (1998).
104. Rossi, R. J. Mathematical statistics an introduction to likelihood
based inference / by Richard J. Rossi. (John Wiley & Sons, Hoboken,
NJ, 2018), 1st edition. edn.
105. Rivas, A., Huelga, S. F. & Plenio, M. B. Entanglement and non-
Markovianity of quantum evolutions. Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 050403
(2010).
106. Kullback, S. & Leibler, R. A. On information and suf ﬁciency. Ann.
Math. Stat. 22,7 9–86 (1951).
107. Mogilevtsev, D., R^ehá ček, J. & Hradil, Z. Self-calibration for self-
consistent tomography. N. J. Phys. 14, 095001 (2012).
108. James, F. Statistical Methods in Experimental Physics (WORLD
SCIENTIFIC, 2006), 2nd edn. https://doi.org/10.1142/6096.
109. Hoadley, B. Asymptotic Properties of Maximum Likelihood
Estimators for the Independent Not Identically Distributed Case.
Ann. Math. Stat. 42, 1977 – 1991 (1971).
110. Blume-Kohout, R. Robust error bars for quantum tomography
1202.5270 (2012).
111. Thinh, L. P., Faist, P., Helsen, J., Elkouss, D. & Wehner, S. Practical
and reliable error bars for quantum process tomography. Phys. Rev.
A 99, 052311 (2019).
112. Doucet, A., de Freitas, N. & Gordon, N. J. (eds.)Sequential Monte Carlo
Methods in Practice. Statistics for Engineering and Information Science
(Springer, 2001).https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4757-3437-9.
113. Gerster, L. et al. Experimental Bayesian calibration of trapped-ion
entangling operations. PRX Quantum 3, 020350 (2022).
114. Kofman, A. G. & Kurizki, G. Acceleration of quantum decay
processes by frequent observations. Nature 405, 546–550 (2000).
115. Kofman, A. G. & Kurizki, G. Universal dynamical control of quantum
mechanical decay: Modulation of the coupling to the continuum.
Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 270405 (2001).
116. Uhrig, G. S. Exact results on dynamical decoupling by π pulses in
quantum information processes. N. J. Phys. 10, 083024 (2008).
117. Almog, I. et al. Direct measurement of the system-environment
coupling as a tool for understanding decoherence and dynamical
decoupling. J. Phys. B: At., Mol. Optical Phys. 44, 154006 (2011).
118. Rivas, Á., Huelga, S. F. & Plenio, M. B. Quantum non-Markovianity:
Characterization, quantiﬁcation and detection. Rep. Prog. Phys. 77,
094001 (2014).
119. Granade, C. et al. QInfer: Statistical inference software for quantum
applications. Quantum 1, 5 (2017).
120. Virtanen, P. et al. SciPy 1.0: Fundamental Algorithms for Scienti ﬁc
Computing in Python. Nat. Methods 17, 261–272 (2020).
121. Gardiner, C. W. Handbook of stochastic methods for physics,
chemistry and the natural sciences , vol. 13 of Springer Series in
Synergetics (Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2004), third edn.
122. Gillespie, D. T. The mathematics of Brownian motion and Johnson
noise. Am. J. Phys. 64, 225 (1996).
123. Clerk, A. A., Devoret, M. H., Girvin, S. M., Marquardt, F. &
Schoelkopf, R. J. Introduction to quantum noise, measurement, and
ampliﬁ
cation. Rev. Mod. Phys. 82, 1155–1208 (2010).
124. von Lüpke, U. et al. Two-qubit spectroscopy of spatiotemporally
correlated quantum noise in superconducting qubits.PRX Quantum
1, 010305 (2020).
125. Bermudez, A., Schaetz, T. & Plenio, M. B. Dissipation-assisted
quantum information processing with trapped ions. Phys. Rev. Lett.
110, 110502 (2013).
126. Cirac, J. I., Blatt, R., Zoller, P. & Phillips, W. D. Laser cooling of
trapped ions in a standing wave.Phys. Rev. A 46, 2668–2681 (1992).
127. Cormick, C., Bermudez, A., Huelga, S. F. & Plenio, M. B. Dissipative
ground-state preparation of a spin chain by a structured
environment. N. J. Phys. 15, 073027 (2013).
128. Bermudez, A. & Schaetz, T. Quantum transport of energy in
controlled synthetic quantum magnets. N. J. Phys. 18, 083006
(2016).
129. Carmichael, H. J. An open systems approach to quantum optics
(Springer-Verlag, Berlin Heidelberg, 1993).
130. de Lange, G., Wang, Z. H., Risté, D., Dobrovitski, V. V. & Hanson, R.
Universal dynamical decoupling of a single solid-state spin from a
spin bath. Science 330,6 0–63 (2010).
131. Cywi ński, L., Witzel, W. M. & Das Sarma, S. Pure quantum dephasing
of a solid-state electron spin qubit in a large nuclear spin bath
coupled by long-range hyperﬁne-mediated interactions. Phys. Rev.
B 79, 245314 (2009).
132. Kampen, N. V. Stochastic processes in physics and chemistry (North
Holland, 2007).
133. Kraus, K. General state changes in quantum theory. Ann. Phys. 64,
311–335 (1971).
134. Choi, M.-D. Completely positive linear maps on complex matrices.
Linear Algebra its Appl. 10, 285–290 (1975).
135. Terwiel, R. Projection operator method applied to stochastic linear
differential equations. Physica 74, 248–265 (1974).
136. Zoller, P. Theoretical Quantum Optics: A practical guide to
stochastic processes & calculus (Master and PhD Course, University
of Innsbruck) (2018).
137. Kubo, R. Generalized cumulant expansion method. J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. 17, 1100–1120 (1962).
138. Van Kampen, N. A cumulant expansion for stochastic linear
differential equations. i. Physica 74, 215–238 (1974).
139. Fox, R. F. Critique of the generalized cumulant expansion method. J.
Math. Phys. 17, 1148–
1153 (2008).
Acknowledgements
The project leading to this publication has received funding from the US
Army Research Ofﬁce through Grant No. W911NF-21-1-0007. A.B
acknowledges support from PID2021-127726NB- I00 (MCIU/AEI/FEDER,
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 19

=== Page 20 ===
UE), from the Grant IFT Centro de Excelencia Severo Ochoa CEX2020-
001007-S, funded by MCIN/AEI/10.13039/501100011033, from the CSIC
Research Platform on Quantum Technologies PTI-001, and from the Eur-
opean Union’s Horizon Europe research and innovation programme under
grant agreement No 101114305 (-MILLENION-SGA1- EU Project). M.M.
furthermore acknowledges support by the European Union’s Horizon Eur-
ope research and innovation program under Grant Agreement No.
101046968 (BRISQ), the ERC Starting Grant QNets through Grant No.
804247, by the Germany ministry of science and education (BMBF) via the
VDI within the project IQuAn, and by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft
(DFG, German Research Foundation) under Germany’s Excellence Strategy
-Cluster of Excellence Matter and Light for Quantum Computing (ML4Q)
EXC 2004/1- 390534769. This research is also part of the Munich Quantum
Valley (K-8), which is supported by the Bavarian state government with funds
from the Hightech Agenda Bayern Plus.
Author contributions
S.V. adapted LℓQT to the frequentist and Bayesian approaches, studying the
theoretical characteristics and performing the numerical simulations. A.B.
and M.M. conceptualized the initial ideas and theoretical tools, and
supervised the theoretical work and the writing of the manuscript. All authors
contributed to the review of the manuscript.
Funding
Open Access funding enabled and organized by Projekt DEAL.
Competing interests
The authors declare no competing interests.
Additional information
Supplementary informationThe online version contains
supplementary material available at
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7
.
Correspondenceand requests for materials should be addressed to
S. Varona.
Reprints and permissions informationis available at
http://www.nature.com/reprints
Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to
jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional afﬁliations.
Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing,
adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long
as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source,
provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes
were made. The images or other third party material in this article are
included in the article ’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated
otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the
article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted
by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to
obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this
licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
.
© The Author(s) 2025
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01044-7 Article
npj Quantum Information |           (2025) 11:96 20
