=== Page 1 ===
Experimental Machine Learning with Classical and Quantum Data
via NMR Quantum Kernels
Vivek Sabarad, ∗ Vishal Varma, † and T. S. Mahesh ‡
Department of Physics and NMR Research Center,
Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune 411008, India
Kernel methods map data into high-dimensional spaces, enabling linear algorithms to learn
nonlinear functions without explicitly storing the feature vectors. Quantum kernel methods promise
efficient learning by encoding feature maps into exponentially large Hilbert spaces inherent in
quantum systems. In this work, we implement quantum kernels on a 10-qubit star-topology register
in a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) platform. We experimentally encode classical data in the
evolution of multiple quantum coherence orders using data-dependent unitary transformations and
then demonstrate one-dimensional regression and two-dimensional classification tasks. By extending
the register to a double-layered star configuration, we propose an extended quantum kernel to handle
non-parametrized operator inputs. Specifically, we set up a kernel for the classification of entangling
and non-entangling operations and then validate this kernel first numerically by computing it on a
double-layered star register and then experimentally by computing it on a three-qubit NMR register.
Our results show that this kernel exhibits an ability to generalize well over unseen data. These results
confirm that quantum kernels possess strong capabilities in classical as well as quantum machine
learning tasks.
I. INTRODUCTION
Powered by advanced computing hardware and inge-
nious algorithms, machine learning is recently making
great strides in several walks of modern civilization,
from drug discovery to self-driving vehicles. Kernel
methods are fundamental in classical machine learning,
particularly in algorithms like support vector machines,
as they enable the analysis of data in high-dimensional
feature spaces without explicit transformations [1]. This
is achieved through the ‘kernel trick’, which involves
computing inner products in feature spaces, facilitating
efficient handling of nonlinear relationships in data. In
classical kernel methods, predefined kernel functions,
such as the polynomial or Gaussian kernels, compute the
inner products in feature space [2].
Quantum machine learning is a promising interdis-
ciplinary field that combines quantum computing with
machine learning to address diverse computational chal-
lenges [3, 4]. A key strategy involves leveraging quantum
systems to represent data in high-dimensional feature
spaces that are beyond the reach of classical compu-
tation. Some notable early contributions to quantum
machine learning include quantum algorithms for solving
linear systems [5], quantum principal component analysis
[6], and quantum support vector machines [7]. Founda-
tional surveys by Biamonte et al. [8] and Schuld et al. [9]
offered in-depth overviews, establishing the theoretical
groundwork of the field. In recent years, progress has
been made in the development of variational quantum
algorithms, which have become central to near-term
∗ vivek.sabarad@students.iiserpune.ac.in
† vishal.varma@students.iiserpune.ac.in
‡ mahesh.ts@iiserpune.ac.in
QML implementations [10–12], and in realizing quantum-
enhanced feature spaces for classification tasks using
superconducting quantum devices [13]. Furthermore,
studies such as [14] have examined the informational
power of input data to identify scenarios where the
quantum advantage is achievable. More recent theo-
retical advances have introduced a unifying framework
for quantum machine learning models as linear models
in a quantum feature space, clarifying the relationship
between parametrized quantum circuits or Quantum
Neural Networks (QNNs) and Quantum Kernel Methods
[15].
Analogous to a classical kernel, a quantum kernel maps
classical data to quantum states or operators in a high-
dimensional Hilbert space. Here, the kernel function
is calculated as the overlap between these states or
operators. Such a quantum kernel can capture intricate
data structures that may be challenging for classical
kernels [16]. The quantum kernel can then be used with
classical algorithms for supervised machine learning like
support vector machines (SVMs) [7, 17]. Quantum Ker-
nel Methods are widely regarded as the QML algorithms
that can show practical quantum advantage [18, 19].
The experimental feasibility of quantum kernel machines
was first demonstrated by Li et al. (2015) [20] in a
liquid-state NMR experiment for character recognition,
foreshadowing more advanced implementations like ours.
Quantum kernels have been realized in various other
platforms like solid-state NMR systems [21], photonic
quantum circuits [22] and neutral-atom quantum pro-
cessors [23]. Quantum kernel methods have shown
promise for both classical and quantum machine learning
tasks, with growing theoretical and experimental support
across diverse domains [14, 24–27]. Additionally, kernel
methods are also well-regarded for their trainability,
owing to the convex nature of their loss landscapes [28].
In this work, we implement quantum kernel methods
arXiv:2412.09557v2  [quant-ph]  15 Apr 2025

=== Page 2 ===
2
on a liquid-state NMR register, specifically using star
systems [29], drawing inspiration from the solid-state
NMR quantum kernel of Kusumoto et al. [21]. However,
our proposed kernel goes beyond earlier works by ex-
tending it to handle quantum data and perform quantum
tasks. Theoretical proposals suggest that some learning
tasks involving “quantum inputs” may be infeasible for
classical algorithms, yet can be efficiently addressed using
quantum kernels [30, 31]. Several recent numerical as
well as experimental studies that use the quantum data
for the machine learning tasks have been able to show a
quantum advantage in terms of generalizability of the
models [30, 32–37]. In this work, we experimentally
demonstrate the ability of quantum kernels to handle
quantum data and successfully carry out a quantum
task, showing a clear ability to generalize well on unseen
data. We start by using a quantum register with a
single-layered star topology to experimentally validate
our kernel by applying it to standard classical machine
learning tasks with classical inputs and then move on to
quantum inputs.
In Sec. II we introduce the theory of kernel methods
and then explain their quantum analog. In Sec. III we
describe NMR experiments to extract quantum kernels,
and demonstrate one-dimensional regression tasks and
a two-dimensional classification task. We also propose
and numerically simulate an extended quantum kernel
that can handle quantum data and perform quantum
tasks such as entanglement classification while showing
its experimental implementation on a 3-qubit system by
simulating one arm of the extended star system. Finally,
we discuss the results and conclude in Sec. IV.
II. THEOR Y
We start with a familiar machine learning model,
namely linear regression [38]. Consider a dataset
{(xi, yi)}N
i=1, where xi ∈ Rd represents the feature vector
of the i-th observation, and yi ∈ R is the corresponding
target value. The linear regression model assumes that
the relationship between the input features and the
output can be described by a linear function:
yi = f(xi) + ϵi, (1)
where f(xi) = w⊤xi + b, w ∈ Rd is the weight vector,
b ∈ R is the bias term, and ϵi accounts for any noise or
error in the data. For simplicity, we can represent it,
˜xi =

1
xi

, ˜w =

b
w

, (2)
which allows us to write the model as
f(xi) = ˜w⊤˜xi. (3)
Our objective is to find the optimal weight vector ˜w that
minimizes the difference between the predicted values
FIG. 1. Illustrating data (left) and its feature space mapping
using a higher-dimensional kernel (right).
ˆyi = f(xi) and the actual target values yi, usually taken
in the form
J( ˜w) = 1
N
NX
i=1
 
yi − ˜w⊤˜xi
2
. (4)
Minimization of J with respect to ˜w leads to normal
equations,
˜w = ( ˜X⊤ ˜X)−1 ˜X⊤y, (5)
where ˜X is the design matrix formed by stacking the
augmented feature vectors ˜xi as rows, and y is the vector
of target values [38].
While linear regression is powerful for linearly separa-
ble data, it struggles with datasets where the relationship
between features and targets is nonlinear. To address
this, we can transform the input features into a higher-
dimensional space wherein linear regression can capture
the nonlinear patterns in the data.
A. Kernel Methods
Kernel methods extend linear algorithms to handle
nonlinear problems by mapping the input data into a
high-dimensional feature space using a nonlinear trans-
formation. However, instead of explicitly performing this
transformation, kernel methods rely on computing inner
products in the feature space directly using a kernel
function (see Fig. 1) [1]. Consider a non-linear map
ϕ : Rd → F , which transforms the input features into a
vector space F known as the feature space. The linear
model of a non-linear function f(x) in the feature space
is
f(xi) = w⊤
ϕ ϕ(xi), (6)
where wϕ is the weight vector in the feature space. The
cost function becomes
J(wϕ) = 1
N
NX
i=1
 
yi − w⊤
ϕ ϕ(xi)
2
. (7)
Solving for wϕ directly is often computationally expen-
sive due to the high dimensionality of F. Instead, we

=== Page 3 ===
3
leverage the representer theorem [39], which states that
the optimal solution wϕ can be expressed as a linear
combination of the transformed training samples
wϕ =
NX
i=1
αiϕ(xi), (8)
with scalar coefficients αi. Substituting the above into
the model in Eq. 6, we obtain
f(x) =
NX
i=1
αiϕ(xi)⊤ϕ(x) =
NX
i=1
αik(xi, x), (9)
where k(xi, xj) = ϕ(xi)⊤ϕ(xj) is the kernel function.
For clarity, let us consider kernel regression without
regularization. The cost function simplifies to
J(α) = 1
N
NX
i=1

yi −
NX
j=1
αjk(xj, xi)


2
= 1
N ∥y − Kα∥2 ,
(10)
where Kij = ( xi, xj) are elements of the kernel matrix
K. Our objective is to find the coefficients α =
[α1, α2, . . . , αN]⊤ that minimize J(α). Minimizing J(α)
with respect to α leads to the normal equations
α = K−1y. (11)
Once we have α, we can make the prediction for any new
input x using Eq. 9. Thus, by using kernel functions,
we can work in very high-dimensional (even infinite-
dimensional) feature spaces without explicitly computing
the mapping ϕ(x). Common kernel functions include:
• Linear kernel: k(xi, xj) = x⊤
i xj.
• Polynomial kernel: k(xi, xj) = (x⊤
i xj + c)d, where
c is a constant and d is the degree.
• Gaussian kernel: k(xi, xj) = exp

− ∥xi−xj ∥2
2σ2

.
These kernels allow us to capture complex, nonlinear
relationships in the data using algorithms designed for
linear models [2].
B. Quantum Kernel Methods
Quantum kernel methods extend classical kernel tech-
niques by utilizing quantum registers to compute kernel
functions, capturing complex patterns in data that may
be intractable classically. The principal idea is to map the
input data into the operator space of the quantum system
that exploits the rich algebraic structure of quantum
operators without necessitating a full-scale quantum
computer [17]. In our work, we employ nuclear spin
qubits in an NMR setup to experimentally extract the
quantum kernel.
FIG. 2. Quantum feature mapping and quantum kernel
computation protocol. The quantum circuit starts with the
initial state of ρC
eq in order to ensure the symmetry of the
quantum kernel since only the C qubit is measured at the
end.
Quantum kernel methods generally consist of two
key steps: quantum feature mapping and quantum
kernel computation [40]. The quantum feature mapping
involves encoding input data points xi into quantum
operators A(xi). We achieve the encoding by associating
each data point with a specific unitary transformation
U(xi) acting on the quantum system
A(xi) = U(xi)A0U †(xi), (12)
where A0 is a reference operator in the system. Here,
U(xi) are designed such that they efficiently explore the
operator space. However, care must be taken in feature
map design since overly expressive maps can lead to
exponentially concentrated kernel values [18], making
the model effectively independent of the input. The
quantum kernel is then computed using the Frobenius
inner product between operators
k(xi, xj) = Tr [A(xi)A(xj)] . (13)
This kernel function measures the similarity between
data points in the operator space, effectively capturing
intricate relationships inherent in the data. The protocol
for quantum feature mapping and quantum kernel com-
putation is illustrated in Fig. 2. Detailed methodologies
and specific implementations within the NMR framework
are discussed in the next section.
III. EXTRACTING QUANTUM KERNELS AND
IMPLEMENTING ML T ASKS
A. Quantum Kernel for Classical Data
Here, we use the star system, namely trimethyl phos-
phite, whose geometry and molecular structure are shown
in Fig. 3 (a,b). Here 31P and 1H spins form central
(C) and (A) ancillary qubits of the star-topology register.
Given a classical input xi, we design the corresponding
unitary U(xi) and implement quantum feature map
A(xi) = U(xi)I C
z U †(xi), (14)

=== Page 4 ===
4
(c)
(a)
(b)
 (d)
FIG. 3. (a) Geometry of the star-topology register. (b) Molecular structure of trimethyl phosphite, where 31P and 1H spins
form central (C) and (A) ancillary qubits. Here, the spin-spin coupling constant JPH = 11 .0 Hz. (c) Quantum circuit for
encoding classical inputs xi and xj in terms of unitaries U(xi) and U(xj), followed by measurement of z magnetization of C
qubit. Here, helix represents the dephasing operations on x and y magnetization of C-qubit. (d) Experimentally obtained
kernel function for one-dimensional inputs using the quantum kernel in Eq. 18. Assuming the symmetry of the kernel function,
the left half is obtained by mirroring the experimentally extracted right half.
where I C
z is the z component of the spin angular mo-
mentum operator of the C-qubit. Starting from thermal
equilibrium, we destroy the A spin magnetization with
the help of pulsed-field gradients and retain the central
spin state in
ρC
eq = 1
2(1 + ϵI C
z ), (15)
where ϵ is the central spin purity factor. Using Eqs. 13
and 14, the NMR kernel can be written as
kNMR(xi, xj) ∝ Tr(U †(xj)U(xi)ρC
eqU †(xi)U(xj)I C
z ),
(16)
which can be interpreted as the z-magnetization of C
spin measured after applying, on ρC
eq, the unitary U(xi)
followed by U †(xj). Assuming the input vectors are one-
dimensional, the encoding unitary transformation used
for input data is given by
U(xi) = e−ixiI A
z UeeixiI A
z , (17)
where Ue is the entangling unitary that generates mul-
tiple quantum coherences in the system. This idea is
motivated by previous work on quantum kernels realized
in a solid-state system by Kusumoto et al. [21].
The complete quantum circuit for the process is de-
picted in Fig. 3 (c). Here, the local gates of the circuit
are realized using RF pulses, while the CNOT gates are
realized with the help of indirect spin-spin coupling JP H.
Noting that the Z rotations only add a phase to the
ρC
eq and I C
z operators, the one-dimensional kernel can be
written as
kNMR(xi, xj) ∝
Tr(U †
e e−i(xi−xj )I A
z UeρC
eqU †
e ei(xi−xj )I A
z UeI C
z ). (18)
Clearly, kNMR(xi, xj) is a function of the difference be-
tween the input data points xi and xj. The experimental
kernel obtained for the one-dimensional inputs is shown
in Fig. 3 (d), which is used for the machine learning tasks
described in the following.
1. One-dimensional regression task
Using the experimentally obtained kernel, we can now
perform a one-dimensional regression task via the kernel
ridge regression method. We choose two examples. In
the first example, we choose the target function as a sine
curve over one period with a regularly placed training
dataset of size 15. Fig. 4 (a) shows the successful
regression with an RMS error 0.88%. In the second
example, we choose a seventh-degree polynomial y =

=== Page 5 ===
5
(a)
(b)
(c)
 (d)
FIG. 4. Regression of (a) sine function with 15 training data
points and (b) a seventh-degree polynomial function with 42
training data points. (c) and (d) show the percentage RMSE
as a function of the number of training points used for the
sine function and the polynomial function, respectively.
(x −3)(x −2)(x −1)x(x+1)( x+2)( x+3) with a training
dataset of size 40. Fig. 4 (b) shows a successful regression
with an RMS error of 1.15%.
2. Two-dimensional classification task
Suppose the input data points are n-dimensional, i.e.,
xi ∈ Rn such that xi = ( x(1)
i , x(2)
i , . . . , x(n)
i ). The
data-dependent unitary for each input data point of n
dimensions is constructed as
U(xi) =
nY
j=1
V (x(j)
i ) =
nY
j=1
e−ix(j)
i Iz Ueeix(j)
i Iz , (19)
where we identify V (x(j)
i ) as the encoding unitary for
the j-the dimension of the input data point xi. Using
the above encoding scheme, we now extract the two-
dimensional kernel function using Eq. 16 and accord-
ingly, a generalization of the circuit shown in Fig. 3 (c).
Since this kernel satisfies the symmetry [21]
k({x(1)
i , x(2)
i }, {x(1)
j , x(2)
j }) =
k({x(1)
i − x(2)
j , x(2)
i − x(2)
j }, {x(1)
i − x(2)
i , 0}), (20)
we can set x(2)
j = 0, and extract the kernel for two-
dimensional inputs with only three independent param-
eters, x(1)
i , x(2)
i and x(1)
j . Fig. 5 (a) shows the x(1)
j slices
of the experimental kernel.
Using the above experimental kernel, we performed
two-dimensional classification tasks using a support vec-
tor machine (SVM) classifier. Again, we take two
different examples of classification, a circular dataset
(Fig. 5 (b)) and a moons dataset (5 (c)). In Figs. 5 (b,c),
circles and squares show two classes of training datasets.
The decision functions learned by the SVM are shown by
the backgrounds of Figs. 5 (b,c). The hinge loss values,
which quantify errors in these classifications, are 0.15 and
0.08, respectively. These results show that the choice of
the protocol to compute the kernel is fairly reliable and
has the potential to carry out standard ML tasks. In
the following, we explore the possibility of extending the
kernel method to quantum inputs, which enables us to
perform specific quantum tasks.
B. Quantum Kernel for Quantum Data
As an example for a quantum ML task, we take up the
task of determining whether a given unitary transforma-
tion U entangles any given initial mixed state ρ. The
entanglement classification task is a binary classification
problem where the input data is a unitary transformation
and the output is a binary label indicating whether the
transformation is entangling or not for a particular initial
mixed state. It is a nontrivial problem, which is discussed
by Serrano-Ens´ astiga and Martin [41].
We now approach the above problem using the quan-
tum kernel method by taking a set of unitary transfor-
mation U as the quantum input data. Quantum data
offers significant advantages over classical data. Firstly,
unitary transformations do not require parameterization
(except for training), as they can be fed directly into
the kernel model. Secondly, the quantum kernels with
quantum inputs have the ability to predict the labels of
inputs that are categorically different from the training

=== Page 6 ===
6
(a)
(b) (c)
FIG. 5. (a) The x(1)
j slices of the experimentally obtained kernel for two-dimensional input. (b,c) Two-dimensional classifications
for (b) circles dataset and (c) moons dataset. In both classifications, the squares and circles represent the training data points
belonging to two different classes. The background represents the decision function obtained after training.
inputs (generalizability). To handle a quantum input, we
propose a quantum kernel
k(Ui, Uj) = Tr(A(Ui)A(Uj)), (21)
where A(Ui) = V (Ui)A0V †(Ui) is the quantum feature
map for the unitary Ui with the encoding unitary
V (Ui) = UiUeU †
i and A0 is a suitable reference operator
in the system. The kernel function k(Ui, Uj) measures
the similarity between the unitaries Ui and Uj in the
operator space. We now assume a quantum register of
the geometry shown in Fig. 6 (a). The central qubit C is
connected to A qubits, and each A qubit is connected
to a B qubit. The input unitaries Ui act on A and
B qubits as shown in Fig. 6 (c), and then Ue is a
CNOT-like operation that entangles A qubits with C
qubit after a Hadamard on C. The quantum kernel for

=== Page 7 ===
7
(a)
 (b)
(c)
 (d)
 (e)
(f)
 (g)
 (h)
FIG. 6. (a) The geometry of the spin register used for the entanglement classification task. (b) The molecular structure of the
Dibromofluoromethane (DBFM) used to realize one branch of the register in (a). (c) Quantum circuit for encoding unitaries
Ui parametrized by θ and α. (d) Numerical Quantum kernel classification of entangling vs. non-entangling unitaries. The
background indicates the actual classification of entangling (inside elliptical patches) and non-entangling (outside elliptical
patches) when acted on the thermal equilibrium state ρ0 in Eq. 22. The circles represent 30 training unitary operators, and
the triangles are the test unitary operators. The accuracy of the classification is 95%. (e) Same as (d), except with a classical
Gaussian kernel trained on the parameter space (θ, α). Note that the quantum kernel in (c) recognizes the upper entangling zone
even without a single training point there, while the classical kernel in (d) completely fails to recognize the upper entangling
zone. (f) Accuracy of the quantum kernel SVM versus the number of training unitaries. (g) Accuracy versus the delay time
τ used in the entangling unitary Ue. Both saturate at around 95%. (h) Experimental quantum kernel classification carried
out using the kernel computed by experimentally simulating one arm of the register in (a) using DBFM shown in (b). The
description of the symbols is the same as in (d). The accuracy of the classification is 91%.
the entanglement classification task is computed using
Eq. 16 with the new encoding scheme described above.
We classify the unitary operators acting on the thermal
equilibrium state
ρ0 = e−βHZ /4, (22)
of a two spin- 1
2 particles subject to Hamiltonian HZ =
−0.5 · (σ(1)
z + σ(2)
z ) and maintained at an inverse tem-
perature β = 1 .5. The input unitaries Ui(α, β) acting
on the above state either entangle it or not depending
on (α, β). By using logarithmic negativity as the entan-
glement witness for the resulting states, we obtain the
entanglement label for each input unitary [42]. This set
of unitaries and their corresponding labels form the data
for our entanglement classification task.
The numerical results of the classification are shown in
Fig. 6 (d), where the background shades represent the
actual entanglement labels of the operators. The training
is done with 30 operators, chosen from only the lower
part of the parameter space as indicated by circles. The
kernel model is then tested on 196 operators uniformly
distributed over the entire parameter space. The model is
found to classify the operators with an accuracy of 95%.
Interestingly, we observe an extrapolation ability of the
proposed kernel model beyond the training area. This
is because a kernel with quantum inputs measures the
similarity of the inputs directly in the quantum operator
space and not in the classical parameter space [43]. We
now replace the quantum kernel with a classical Gaussian

=== Page 8 ===
8
kernel that takes in parameters ( θ, α) as inputs [44].
The classification results with the classical kernel with
the same training points (as in the quantum case) are
shown in Fig. 6 (e). Note that while the classical
kernel is able to recognize the lower entangling area
where training points are located, it completely fails
to recognize the upper entangling area. This example
illustrates the power of quantum kernels over classical
kernels, especially for quantum tasks. 6 (f) and (g) show
the accuracy of the quantum kernel SVM vs. the number
of training unitaries and accuracy vs. the delay time τ
used in the entangling unitary Ue, respectively. Both
saturate at around 95%. Furthermore, to experimentally
validate the proposed quantum kernel, we use the DBFM
molecule shown in Fig. 6(b) to experimentally simulate
one arm of the register in Fig. 6 (a). The experimental
results are shown in Fig. 6 (h). The accuracy of the
classification is found to be 91%. The reduction in
accuracy, as compared to the numerical results, can be
attributed to the fact that the DBFM molecule is not
a perfect realization of the star topology register and to
the imperfections in pulses used in realizing the unitary
operators. However, the results are still quite promising
and show that the quantum kernel can be used to classify
unitaries acting on quantum states.
Additionally, as mentioned before, unlike classical
kernels, the quantum kernel can also handle non-
parameterized unitaries. We tested the above quantum
kernel (trained on the same set as above) with 100 non-
parameterized random unitary operators. We found it
to correctly classify up to 84% of the random unitary
operators, once again confirming its ability to handle
quantum data directly.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
Quantum kernels offer a practical approach for ex-
ploring the high-dimensional feature spaces inherent in
quantum systems. In this work, we have demonstrated
the implementation of quantum kernel methods using
NMR-based spin registers. By leveraging the symmetries
of a 10-qubit star-topology NMR system, we encoded
classical data into multiple-quantum coherence orders
through data-dependent unitary transforms and com-
puted the kernel function through experimental measure-
ments. Our results show that the quantum kernel method
can effectively perform classical machine learning tasks
such as one-dimensional regression and two-dimensional
classification. Furthermore, by extending the register
to a double-layered star configuration, we introduced a
quantum kernel capable of handling non-parametrized
unitary operator inputs, which can then perform quan-
tum classification tasks and be validated experimentally.
We illustrated the power of the quantum kernel by
successfully classifying unitary operators depending on
whether they generate entanglement or not when acting
on a thermal state. When a large set of high-dimensional
unitaries needs to be classified, the standard method of
tomography is no longer feasible. In such a scenario,
a well-trained quantum kernel can be far more efficient
in classification. This work opens new possibilities for
processing quantum data directly, marking a step toward
realizing fully quantum machine learning systems. Our
findings underscore the potential of quantum kernels
in advancing quantum machine learning, providing a
promising avenue for future research in more complex
quantum tasks and larger-scale implementations. One
future direction could be to adopt automated kernel
construction approaches [45] to systematically improve
the NMR kernel’s performance by adding optimal gates.
Investigating how to encode non-unitary quantum maps
and compute kernels between them can also lead to
deeper insights into the structure of the LOCC class
and contribute to the development of improved quantum
communication protocols.
V. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The authors gratefully acknowledge discussions with
Prof. Sreejith G. J, Arijit Chatterjee, and Ke-
shav V. ChatGPT helped generate simulation codes
for this study. T.S.M. acknowledges funding from
DST/ICPS/QuST/2019/Q67 and I-HUB QTF.
[1] B. Sch¨ olkopf and A. J. Smola, Learning with Kernels:
Support Vector Machines, Regularization, Optimization,
and Beyond (MIT Press, 2002).
[2] J. Shawe-Taylor and N. Cristianini, Kernel Methods for
Pattern Analysis (Cambridge University Press, 2004).
[3] M. Cerezo, G. Verdon, H.-Y. Huang, L. Cincio, and P. J.
Coles, Challenges and opportunities in quantum machine
learning, Nature Computational Science 2, 567 (2022).
[4] S. Mangini, F. Tacchino, D. Gerace, D. Bajoni, and
C. Macchiavello, Quantum computing models for arti-
ficial neural networks, EPL (Europhysics Letters) 134,
10002 (2021).
[5] A. W. Harrow, A. Hassidim, and S. Lloyd, Quantum
algorithm for linear systems of equations, Phys. Rev.
Lett. 103, 150502 (2009).
[6] S. Lloyd, M. Mohseni, and P. Rebentrost, Quantum
principal component analysis, Nature Phys. 10, 631
(2014).
[7] P. Rebentrost, M. Mohseni, and S. Lloyd, Quantum
support vector machine for big data classification, Phys.
Rev. Lett. 113, 130503 (2014).
[8] J. Biamonte, P. Wittek, N. Pancotti, P. Rebentrost,
N. Wiebe, and S. Lloyd, Quantum machine learning,
Nature 549, 195 (2017).

=== Page 9 ===
9
[9] M. Schuld, I. Sinayskiy, and F. Petruccione, An intro-
duction to quantum machine learning, Contemporary
Physics 56, 172 (2015).
[10] M. Cerezo, A. Arrasmith, R. Babbush, S. C. Benjamin,
S. Endo, K. Fujii, J. R. McClean, K. Mitarai, X. Yuan,
L. Cincio, and P. J. Coles, Variational quantum algo-
rithms, Nature Reviews Physics 3, 625 (2021).
[11] F. Tacchino, S. Mangini, P. K. Barkoutsos, C. Macchi-
avello, D. Gerace, I. Tavernelli, and D. Bajoni, Varia-
tional learning for quantum artificial neural networks,
IEEE Transactions on Quantum Engineering 2, 1 (2021).
[12] L. Banchi, J. Pereira, and S. Pirandola, Generalization
in quantum machine learning: A quantum information
standpoint, PRX Quantum 2, 040321 (2021).
[13] V. Havl´ ıˇ cek, A. D. C´ orcoles, K. Temme, A. W. Harrow,
A. Kandala, J. M. Chow, and J. M. Gambetta, Super-
vised learning with quantum-enhanced feature spaces,
Nature 567, 209 (2019).
[14] H.-Y. Huang, M. Broughton, M. Mohseni, R. Babbush,
H. Neven, and J. R. McClean, Power of data in quan-
tum machine learning, Nature Communications 12, 2631
(2021).
[15] S. Jerbi, L. J. Fiderer, H. Poulsen Nautrup, J. M. K¨ ubler,
H. J. Briegel, and V. Dunjko, Quantum machine learning
beyond kernel methods, Nature Communications 14,
10.1038/s41467-023-36159-y (2023).
[16] M. Schuld and N. Killoran, Quantum machine learning
in feature hilbert spaces, Phys. Rev. Lett. 122, 040504
(2019).
[17] M. Schuld, Quantum models as kernel methods, in
Machine Learning with Quantum Computers (Springer,
Cham, 2021) pp. 125–144.
[18] S. Thanasilp, S. Wang, M. Cerezo, A. T. Sornborger,
P. J. Coles, K. Sharma, and Z. Holmes, Exponential
concentration in quantum kernel methods, Nature Com-
munications 15, 5200 (2024).
[19] J. J¨ ager and R. V. Krems, Universal expressiveness of
variational quantum classifiers and quantum kernels for
support vector machines, Nature Communications 14,
576 (2023).
[20] Z. Li, X. Liu, N. Xu, and J. Du, Experimental realization
of a quantum support vector machine, Phys. Rev. Lett.
114, 140504 (2015).
[21] T. Kusumoto, K. Mitarai, K. Fujii, M. Kitagawa, and
M. Negoro, Experimental quantum kernel trick with
nuclear spins in a solid, npj Quantum Information 7, 94
(2021).
[22] K. Bartkiewicz, C. Gneiting, A. ˇCernoch, K. Jir´ akov´ a,
K. Lemr, and F. Nori, Experimental kernel-based quan-
tum machine learning in finite feature space, Scientific
Reports 10, 12356 (2020).
[23] B. Albrecht, C. Dalyac, L. Leclerc, L. Ortiz-Guti´ errez,
S. Thabet, M. D’Arcangelo, J. R. K. Cline, V. E. Elfving,
L. Lassabli` ere, H. Silv´ erio, B. Ximenez, L.-P. Henry,
A. Signoles, and L. Henriet, Quantum feature maps for
graph machine learning on a neutral atom quantum
processor, Phys. Rev. A 107, 042615 (2023).
[24] Z. Krunic, F. F. Fl¨ other, G. Seegan, N. D. Earnest-
Noble, and O. Shehab, Quantum kernels for real-world
predictions based on electronic health records, IEEE
Transactions on Quantum Engineering 3, 1 (2022).
[25] E. Peters, J. Caldeira, A. Ho, S. Leichenauer,
M. Mohseni, H. Neven, P. Spentzouris, D. Strain, and
G. N. Perdue, Machine learning of high dimensional data
on a noisy quantum processor, npj Quantum Information
7, 161 (2021).
[26] T. Sancho-Lorente, J. Rom´ an-Roche, and D. Zueco,
Quantum kernels to learn the phases of quantum matter,
Phys. Rev. A 105, 042432 (2022).
[27] Y. Wu, B. Wu, J. Wang, and X. Yuan, Quantum Phase
Recognition via Quantum Kernel Methods, Quantum 7,
981 (2023).
[28] G. Gentinetta, A. Thomsen, D. Sutter, and S. Woerner,
The complexity of quantum support vector machines,
Quantum 8, 1225 (2024).
[29] T. S. Mahesh, D. Khurana, K. V. R, S. G. J, and
S. Kumar, Star-topology registers: Nmr and quantum
information perspectives, Journal of Physics: Condensed
Matter 33 (2021).
[30] H.-Y. Huang, M. Broughton, J. Cotler, S. Chen,
J. Li, M. Mohseni, H. Neven, R. Babbush, R. Kueng,
J. Preskill, and J. R. McClean, Quantum advantage in
learning from experiments, Science 376, 1182 (2022).
[31] M. C. Caro, H.-Y. Huang, N. Ezzell, J. Gibbs, A. T.
Sornborger, L. Cincio, P. J. Coles, and Z. Holmes,
Out-of-distribution generalization for learning quantum
dynamics, Nature Communications 14, 3751 (2023).
[32] L. Nagano, A. Miessen, T. Onodera, I. Tavernelli,
F. Tacchino, and K. Terashi, Quantum data learning for
quantum simulations in high-energy physics, Phys. Rev.
Res. 5, 043250 (2023).
[33] A. Bisio, G. Chiribella, G. M. D’Ariano, S. Facchini,
and P. Perinotti, Optimal quantum learning of a unitary
transformation, Phys. Rev. A 81, 032324 (2010).
[34] K. Beer, D. Bondarenko, T. Farrelly, T. J. Osborne,
R. Salzmann, D. Scheiermann, and R. Wolf, Training
deep quantum neural networks, Nature Communications
11, 808 (2020).
[35] J. Gibbs, Z. Holmes, M. C. Caro, N. Ezzell, H.-Y. Huang,
L. Cincio, A. T. Sornborger, and P. J. Coles, Dynamical
simulation via quantum machine learning with provable
generalization, Phys. Rev. Res. 6, 013241 (2024).
[36] A. V. Uvarov, A. S. Kardashin, and J. D. Biamonte,
Machine learning phase transitions with a quantum
processor, Phys. Rev. A 102, 012415 (2020).
[37] M. C. Caro, H.-Y. Huang, M. Cerezo, K. Sharma,
A. Sornborger, L. Cincio, and P. J. Coles, Generalization
in quantum machine learning from few training data,
Nature Communications 13, 4919 (2022).
[38] D. C. Montgomery, E. A. Peck, and G. G. Vining, In-
troduction to Linear Regression Analysis, 5th ed. (Wiley,
2012).
[39] B. Sch¨ olkopf, R. Herbrich, and A. J. Smola, A generalized
representer theorem, in Computational Learning The-
ory: 14th Annual Conference on Computational Learning
Theory, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 2111,
edited by D. Helmbold and B. Williamson (Springer,
Berlin, Germany, 2001) pp. 416–426.
[40] Q. L. Wang, Y. Jin, X. H. Li, et al. , An advanced
quantum support vector machine for power quality dis-
turbance detection and identification, EPJ Quantum
Technology 11, 70 (2024).
[41] E. Serrano-Ens´ astiga and J. Martin, Maximum entangle-
ment of mixed symmetric states under unitary transfor-
mations, SciPost Physics 15, 120 (2023).
[42] M. B. Plenio, Logarithmic negativity: A full entangle-
ment monotone that is not convex, Physical Review
Letters 95, 090503 (2005).

=== Page 10 ===
10
[43] V. Markov, V. Rastunkov, and D. Fry, Quantum time
series similarity measures and quantum temporal kernels
(2024), arXiv:2312.01602 [quant-ph].
[44] F. Pedregosa, G. Varoquaux, A. Gramfort, V. Michel,
B. Thirion, O. Grisel, M. Blondel, P. Prettenhofer,
R. Weiss, V. Dubourg, J. Vanderplas, A. Passos, D. Cour-
napeau, M. Brucher, M. Perrot, and E. Duchesnay,scikit-
learn: Machine Learning in Python - Gaussian Process ,
Scikit-learn Developers (2024).
[45] E. Torabian and R. V. Krems, Compositional optimiza-
tion of quantum circuits for quantum kernels of support
vector machines, Phys. Rev. Research 5, 013211 (2023).
